IT IS IMPOSSIBLE TO “PAY” CHILD-SUPPORT (or other public types of debt)
BECAUSE (FRN) 18 U.S.C. § 8 FEDERAL RESERVE NOTES ARE NOT MONEY 
OR LEGAL TENDER? 

If this comes up, you may state in public court or put in a motion for a more definitive statement about what form of money is lawfully and constitutionally required to pay debt...or conditionally accept their offer to pay upon PROOF of CLAIM that “Dollars” are constitutional legal tender and REQUIRED by law to pay in. 
  
If they say you must pay in “Dollars” (Federal reserve notes), then ask ”what does the law say they can require”. What does a “dollar actually equal”… a debt, a coffee bean”, etc? They just created a violation of your rights under Title 42. DO you think you may just want to bring it up? The court and your government opponent surely won't do it for you.

What is a legal tender to pay child support, a judgment, IRS, bill mortgage etc? ASK THEM THIS…Don’t fight or tell them, but instead ask them the right questions. Put the burden of proof on them. MAKE THEM say it. FRN’S are not legal tender for a debt, so they can force you to use them in settlement of a matter in conflict with the constitution? Not lawfully anyway. No law can move ahead of the authority of the constitutional limits. 

So offer them coffee beans as equaling dollars…. It has been done. 

Put this before them in your motion, acceptance, or offer: The power of the state to declare a legal tender is limited to gold and silver coin. All “lawful money” of the United States is not legal tender for private obligations by the laws of the United States.”…The legal tender and gold contract decisions, taken in connection with the recent case of Woodruff v. State of Mississippi, 162 U.S. 291 (16 Sup. Ct. 820), are controlling here.” DENNIS v. MOSES, 18 Wash 537, at 595 (February 15, 1898). 

Article 1 section 10 of the US Constitution says:

No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation; grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of Credit; make anything but gold and silver Coin a Tender in Payment of Debts; pass any Bill of Attainder, ex post facto Law, or Law impairing the Obligation of Contracts, or grant any Title of Nobility.

So break that down…
Bills of Attainder are traffic tickets and similar charging instruments (bills)
Make anything but Silver or Gold a Tender in payment of debts (the court can not tell you that you HAVE to pay in “Dollars”...if they say anything else it is repugnant and treason against the constitution. Bring that up.
So when in court bring ups such an argument, have a copy of the above caption and Article 1 section 10 read, and then ask them before arguing anything (in letters or in court ask):
What evidence do you have proving you can lawfully require payment in “Dollars” for payment of debt? What law supersedes Article 1 section 10 of the constitution so I can look it up? Isn’t it treason against the constitution to demand anything else? Please identify the evidence of the species of money I have to pay, or dismiss? What does a Dollar mean in relation to Article 1 section 10 regarding demands for payment of debt? If you are an attorney, are you not making false and misleading claims and relying only on hearsay when you make claims or testify as you have? 

Titles of nobility are the lawyers under the BAR association. Not “licensed” but yet receive special treatment in the legal system. They self license, vs the state granting an actual license.  

So then enter a Motion to Dismiss or agree a dollar is worth a coffee bean, and settle there. 

In the end it is their own laws that tell it all – look up 18 USC § 8 and then 31 USC § 3124  - and use them in your correspondence. How can they tell you to break the law to pay them?  They can’t ! 

To stop something early - read carefully, 15 USC 1692 and claim they are making BILL ERRORS, identity theft fraud.

