Fair Debt 
Collection 
Practices 
Act
15 U.S.C. §§ 1692-1692p
Last amended July 2010
THE FAIR DEBT COLLECTION PRACTICES ACT
As amended by Pub. L. 111-203, title X, 124 Stat. 2092 (2010)
As a public service, the staff of the Federal Trade Commission (FTC) 
has prepared the following complete text of the Fair Debt Collection 
Practices Act (FDCPA), 15 U.S.C. §§ 1692-1692p.
Please note that the format of the text differs in minor ways from the 
U.S. Code and West’s U.S. Code Annotated. For example, this version 
uses FDCPA section numbers in the headings. In addition, the relevant 
U.S. Code citation is included with each section heading. Although the 
staff has made every effort to transcribe the statutory material accurately, 
this compendium is intended as a convenience for the public and not a 
substitute for the text in the U.S. Code.
Table of Contents
§ 801	 Short title 
§ 802	 Congressional findings and declaration of purpose
§ 803	 Definitions
§ 804	 Acquisition of location information
§ 805	 Communication in connection with debt collection
§ 806	 Harassment or abuse
§ 807	 False or misleading representations
§ 808	 Unfair practices 
§ 809	 Validation of debts
§ 810	 Multiple debts
§ 811	 Legal actions by debt collectors
§ 812	 Furnishing certain deceptive forms
§ 813	 Civil liability 
§ 814	 Administrative enforcement 
§ 815	 Reports to Congress by the Bureau; views of other Federal 
agencies
§ 816	 Relation to State laws
§ 817	 Exemption for State regulation
§ 818	 Exception for certain bad check enforcement programs 
operated by private entities
§ 819	 Effective date
2
§ 801	
15 USC 1601 note
§ 801. Short Title 
This subchapter may be cited as the “Fair Debt Collection 
Practices Act.”
§ 802. Congressional findings and declaration of purpose
(a)	Abusive practices
	
There is abundant evidence of the use of abusive, decep­
tive, and unfair debt collection practices by many debt 
collectors. Abusive debt collection practices contribute to 
the number of personal bankruptcies, to marital instability, 
to the loss of jobs, and to invasions of individual privacy. 
(b)	Inadequacy of laws
	
Existing laws and procedures for redressing these injuries 
are inadequate to protect consumers. 
(c)	Available non-abusive collection methods
	
Means other than misrepresentation or other abusive debt 
collection practices are available for the effective collec­
tion of debts. 
(d)	Interstate commerce
	
Abusive debt collection practices are carried on to a sub­
stantial extent in interstate commerce and through means 
and instrumentalities of such commerce. Even where 
abusive debt collection practices are purely intrastate in 
character, they nevertheless directly affect interstate com­
merce. 
(e)	Purposes
	
It is the purpose of this subchapter to eliminate abusive 
debt collection practices by debt collectors, to insure that 
those debt collectors who refrain from using abusive debt 
collection practices are not competitively disadvantaged, 
and to promote consistent State action to protect consum­
ers against debt collection abuses.
15 USC 1601 note
15 USC 1692
3
§ 803	
15 USC 1692a
§ 803. Definitions 
As used in this subchapter—
(1)	The term “Bureau” means the Bureau of Consumer 
Financial Protection. 
(2)	The term “communication” means the conveying of 
information regarding a debt directly or indirectly to 
any person through any medium. 
(3)	The term “consumer” means any natural person obli­
gated or allegedly obligated to pay any debt. 
(4)	The term “creditor” means any person who offers or 
extends credit creating a debt or to whom a debt is 
owed, but such term does not include any person to the 
extent that he receives an assignment or transfer of a 
debt in default solely for the purpose of facilitating col­
lection of such debt for another. 
(5)	The term “debt” means any obligation or alleged 
obligation of a consumer to pay money arising out of 
a transaction in which the money, property, insurance 
or services which are the subject of the transaction are 
primarily for personal, family, or household purposes, 
whether or not such obligation has been reduced to 
judgment. 
(6)	The term “debt collector” means any person who uses 
any instrumentality of interstate commerce or the mails 
in any business the principal purpose of which is the 
collection of any debts, or who regularly collects or 
attempts to collect, directly or indirectly, debts owed 
or due or asserted to be owed or due another. Not­
withstanding the exclusion provided by clause (F) of 
the last sentence of this paragraph, the term includes 
any creditor who, in the process of collecting his own 
debts, uses any name other than his own which would 
indicate that a third person is collecting or attempt­
ing to collect such debts. For the purpose of section 
1692f(6) of this title, such term also includes any 
person who uses any instrumentality of interstate com­
merce or the mails in any business the principal pur­
15 USC 1692a
4
§ 803
15 USC 1692a
pose of which is the enforcement of security interests. 
The term does not include—
(A)	any officer or employee of a creditor while, in 
the name of the creditor, collecting debts for such 
creditor; 
(B)	any person while acting as a debt collector for 
another person, both of whom are related by com­
mon ownership or affiliated by corporate control, 
if the person acting as a debt collector does so only 
for persons to whom it is so related or affiliated and 
if the principal business of such person is not the 
collection of debts; 
(C)	any officer or employee of the United States or any 
State to the extent that collecting or attempting to col­
lect any debt is in the performance of his official duties; 
(D)	any person while serving or attempting to serve le­
gal process on any other person in connection with 
the judicial enforcement of any debt; 
(E)	any nonprofit organization which, at the request 
of consumers, performs bona fide consumer credit 
counseling and assists consumers in the liquida­
tion of their debts by receiving payments from such 
consumers and distributing such amounts to credi­
tors; and
(F)	any person collecting or attempting to collect any 
debt owed or due or asserted to be owed or due 
another to the extent such activity 
(i)	 is incidental to a bona fide fiduciary obligation 
or a bona fide escrow arrangement;
(ii)	 concerns a debt which was originated by such 
person;
(iii)	concerns a debt which was not in default at the 
time it was obtained by such person; or
(iv)	concerns a debt obtained by such person as a 
secured party in a commercial credit transac­
tion involving the creditor. 
5
§ 803
15 USC 1692a
(7)	The term “location information” means a consumer’s 
place of abode and his telephone number at such place, 
or his place of employment.
(8)	The term “State” means any State, territory, or posses­
sion of the United States, the District of Columbia, the 
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or any political subdi­
vision of any of the foregoing.
§ 804. Acquisition of location information
Any debt collector communicating with any person other 
than the consumer for the purpose of acquiring location infor­
mation about the consumer shall—
(1)	identify himself, state that he is confirming or correct­
ing location information concerning the consumer, and, 
only if expressly requested, identify his employer; 
(2)	not state that such consumer owes any debt; 
(3)	not communicate with any such person more than once 
unless requested to do so by such person or unless 
the debt collector reasonably believes that the earlier 
response of such person is erroneous or incomplete and 
that such person now has correct or complete location 
information; 
(4)	not communicate by post card; 
(5)	not use any language or symbol on any envelope or 
in the contents of any communication effected by the 
mails or telegram that indicates that the debt collector 
is in the debt collection business or that the communi­
cation relates to the collection of a debt; and 
(6)	after the debt collector knows the consumer is repre­
sented by an attorney with regard to the subject debt 
and has knowledge of, or can readily ascertain, such 
attorney’s name and address, not communicate with 
any person other than that attorney, unless the attorney 
fails to respond within a reasonable period of time to 
communication from the debt collector.
15 USC 1692b
6
§ 805
15 USC 1692c
§ 805. Communication in connection with debt collection
(a)	Communication with the consumer generally
Without the prior consent of the consumer given directly to 
the debt collector or the express permission of a court of com­
petent jurisdiction, a debt collector may not communicate with 
a consumer in connection with the collection of any debt—
(1)	at any unusual time or place or a time or place known 
or which should be known to be inconvenient to the 
consumer. In the absence of knowledge of circumstanc­
es to the contrary, a debt collector shall assume that the 
convenient time for communicating with a consumer 
is after 8 o’clock antemeridian and before 9 o’clock 
postmeridian, local time at the consumer’s location; 
(2)	if the debt collector knows the consumer is represented 
by an attorney with respect to such debt and has knowl­
edge of, or can readily ascertain, such attorney’s name 
and address, unless the attorney fails to respond within 
a reasonable period of time to a communication from 
the debt collector or unless the attorney consents to 
direct communication with the consumer; or 
(3)	at the consumer’s place of employment if the debt col­
lector knows or has reason to know that the consumer’s 
employer prohibits the consumer from receiving such 
communication. 
(b)	Communication with third parties
Except as provided in section 1692b of this title, without 
the prior consent of the consumer given directly to the debt 
collector, or the express permission of a court of compe­
tent jurisdiction, or as reasonably necessary to effectuate 
a postjudgment judicial remedy, a debt collector may not 
communicate, in connection with the collection of any 
debt, with any person other than the consumer, his attor­
ney, a consumer reporting agency if otherwise permitted 
by law, the creditor, the attorney of the creditor, or the at­
torney of the debt collector. 
(c)	Ceasing communication
15 USC 1692c
7
§ 805
15 USC 1692c
If a consumer notifies a debt collector in writing that the 
consumer refuses to pay a debt or that the consumer wishes 
the debt collector to cease further communication with the 
consumer, the debt collector shall not communicate further 
with the consumer with respect to such debt, except—
(1)	to advise the consumer that the debt collector’s further 
efforts are being terminated; 
(2)	to notify the consumer that the debt collector or credi­
tor may invoke specified remedies which are ordinarily 
invoked by such debt collector or creditor; or 
(3)	where applicable, to notify the consumer that the debt 
collector or creditor intends to invoke a specified 
remedy. 
If such notice from the consumer is made by mail, notifica­
tion shall be complete upon receipt. 
(d)	“Consumer” defined
For the purpose of this section, the term “consumer” in­
cludes the consumer’s spouse, parent (if the consumer is a 
minor), guardian, executor, or administrator.
§ 806. Harassment or abuse
A debt collector may not engage in any conduct the natu­
ral consequence of which is to harass, oppress, or abuse any 
person in connection with the collection of a debt. Without 
limiting the general application of the foregoing, the following 
conduct is a violation of this section: 
(1)	The use or threat of use of violence or other criminal 
means to harm the physical person, reputation, or prop­
erty of any person. 
(2)	The use of obscene or profane language or language 
the natural consequence of which is to abuse the hearer 
or reader. 
(3)	The publication of a list of consumers who allegedly 
refuse to pay debts, except to a consumer reporting 
agency or to persons meeting the requirements of sec­
15 USC 1692d
8
§ 806
15 USC 1692d
tion 1681a(f) or 1681b(3)1 of this title. 
(4)	The advertisement for sale of any debt to coerce pay­
ment of the debt.
(5)	Causing a telephone to ring or engaging any person 
in telephone conversation repeatedly or continuously 
with intent to annoy, abuse, or harass any person at the 
called number.
 (6)	Except as provided in section 1692b of this title, the 
placement of telephone calls without meaningful dis­
closure of the caller’s identity.
§ 807. False or misleading representations
A debt collector may not use any false, deceptive, or mis­
leading representation or means in connection with the col­
lection of any debt. Without limiting the general application 
of the foregoing, the following conduct is a violation of this 
section: 
(1)	The false representation or implication that the debt 
collector is vouched for, bonded by, or affiliated with 
the United States or any State, including the use of any 
badge, uniform, or facsimile thereof. 
(2)	The false representation of— 
(A)	the character, amount, or legal status of any debt; or 
(B)	any services rendered or compensation which may 
be lawfully received by any debt collector for the 
collection of a debt. 
(3)	The false representation or implication that any indi­
vidual is an attorney or that any communication is from 
an attorney. 
(4)	The representation or implication that nonpayment of 
any debt will result in the arrest or imprisonment of 
any person or the seizure, garnishment, attachment, 
or sale of any property or wages of any person unless 
such action is lawful and the debt collector or creditor 
intends to take such action. 
1. Section 604(3) has been renumbered as Section 604(a)(3).
15 USC 1692e
9
§ 807	
15 USC 1692e
(5)	The threat to take any action that cannot legally be 
taken or that is not intended to be taken. 
(6)	The false representation or implication that a sale, 
referral, or other transfer of any interest in a debt shall 
cause the consumer to— 
(A) lose any claim or defense to payment of the debt; or 
(B) become subject to any practice prohibited by this 
subchapter. 
(7)	The false representation or implication that the con­
sumer committed any crime or other conduct in order 
to disgrace the consumer. 
(8)	Communicating or threatening to communicate to any 
person credit information which is known or which 
should be known to be false, including the failure to 
communicate that a disputed debt is disputed. 
(9)	The use or distribution of any written communication 
which simulates or is falsely represented to be a docu­
ment authorized, issued, or approved by any court, 
official, or agency of the United States or any State, or 
which creates a false impression as to its source, autho­
rization, or approval. 
(10)	The use of any false representation or deceptive means 
to collect or attempt to collect any debt or to obtain 
information concerning a consumer. 
(11)	The failure to disclose in the initial written communi­
cation with the consumer and, in addition, if the initial 
communication with the consumer is oral, in that initial 
oral communication, that the debt collector is attempt­
ing to collect a debt and that any information obtained 
will be used for that purpose, and the failure to disclose 
in subsequent communications that the communication 
is from a debt collector, except that this paragraph shall 
not apply to a formal pleading made in connection with 
a legal action.
(12)	The false representation or implication that accounts 
have been turned over to innocent purchasers for value. 
10
§ 807
15 USC 1692e
(13)	The false representation or implication that documents 
are legal process.
(14)	The use of any business, company, or organization 
name other than the true name of the debt collector’s 
business, company, or organization. 
(15)	The false representation or implication that documents 
are not legal process forms or do not require action by 
the consumer. 
(16)	The false representation or implication that a debt col­
lector operates or is employed by a consumer reporting 
agency as defined by section 1681a(f) of this title.
§ 808. Unfair practices
A debt collector may not use unfair or unconscionable 
means to collect or attempt to collect any debt. Without limit­
ing the general application of the foregoing, the following 
conduct is a violation of this section: 
(1)	The collection of any amount (including any interest, 
fee, charge, or expense incidental to the principal obli­
gation) unless such amount is expressly authorized by 
the agreement creating the debt or permitted by law. 
(2)	The acceptance by a debt collector from any person of 
a check or other payment instrument postdated by more 
than five days unless such person is notified in writing 
of the debt collector’s intent to deposit such check or 
instrument not more than ten nor less than three busi­
ness days prior to such deposit. 
(3)	The solicitation by a debt collector of any postdated 
check or other postdated payment instrument for the pur­
pose of threatening or instituting criminal prosecution. 
(4)	Depositing or threatening to deposit any postdated 
check or other postdated payment instrument prior to 
the date on such check or instrument. 
(5)	Causing charges to be made to any person for com­
munications by concealment of the true propose of 
the communication. Such charges include, but are not 
limited to, collect telephone calls and telegram fees. 
15 USC 1692f
11
§ 808
15 USC 1692f
(6)	Taking or threatening to take any nonjudicial action to 
effect dispossession or disablement of property if— 
(A)	there is no present right to possession of the prop­
erty claimed as collateral through an enforceable 
security interest; 
(B)	there is no present intention to take possession of  
the property; or
(C)	the property is exempt by law from such disposses­
sion or disablement. 
(7)	Communicating with a consumer regarding a debt by 
post card. 
(8)	Using any language or symbol, other than the debt col­
lector’s address, on any envelope when communicating 
with a consumer by use of the mails or by telegram, 
except that a debt collector may use his business name 
if such name does not indicate that he is in the debt col­
lection business.
§ 809. Validation of debts
(a)	Notice of debt; contents
Within five days after the initial communication with a con­
sumer in connection with the collection of any debt, a debt 
collector shall, unless the following information is contained 
in the initial communication or the consumer has paid the 
debt, send the consumer a written notice containing—
(1)	the amount of the debt; 
(2)	the name of the creditor to whom the debt is owed; 
(3)	a statement that unless the consumer, within thirty days 
after receipt of the notice, disputes the validity of the 
debt, or any portion thereof, the debt will be assumed 
to be valid by the debt collector; 
(4)	a statement that if the consumer notifies the debt col­
lector in writing within the thirty-day period that the 
debt, or any portion thereof, is disputed, the debt col­
lector will obtain verification of the debt or a copy of 
a judgment against the consumer and a copy of such 
15 USC 1692g
12
§ 809
15 USC 1692g
verification or judgment will be mailed to the consumer 
by the debt collector; and 
(5)	a statement that, upon the consumer’s written request 
within the thirty-day period, the debt collector will 
provide the consumer with the name and address of the 
original creditor, if different from the current creditor. 
(b)	Disputed debts
If the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing within 
the thirty-day period described in subsection (a) of this 
section that the debt, or any portion thereof, is disputed, 
or that the consumer requests the name and address of the 
original creditor, the debt collector shall cease collection 
of the debt, or any disputed portion thereof, until the debt 
collector obtains verification of the debt or a copy of a 
judgment, or the name and address of the original creditor, 
and a copy of such verification or judgment, or name and 
address of the original creditor, is mailed to the consumer 
by the debt collector. Collection activities and communi­
cations that do not otherwise violate this subchapter may 
continue during the 30-day period referred to in subsection 
(a) unless the consumer has notified the debt collector in 
writing that the debt, or any portion of the debt, is disputed 
or that the consumer requests the name and address of the 
original creditor. Any collection activities and communica­
tion during the 30-day period may not overshadow or be 
inconsistent with the disclosure of the consumer’s right 
to dispute the debt or request the name and address of the 
original creditor.
(c)	Admission of liability
The failure of a consumer to dispute the validity of a debt 
under this section may not be construed by any court as an 
admission of liability by the consumer.
(d)	Legal pleadings
A communication in the form of a formal pleading in a 
civil action shall not be treated as an initial communication 
for purposes of subsection (a).
13
§ 809
15 USC 1692g
(e)	Notice provisions
The sending or delivery of any form or notice which does 
not relate to the collection of a debt and is expressly re­
quired by title 26, title V of Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act [15 
U.S.C. 6801 et seq.], or any provision of Federal or State 
law relating to notice of data security breach or privacy, or 
any regulation prescribed under any such provision of law, 
shall not be treated as an initial communication in connec­
tion with debt collection for purposes of this section.
§ 810. Multiple debts
If any consumer owes multiple debts and makes any single 
payment to any debt collector with respect to such debts, such 
debt collector may not apply such payment to any debt which 
is disputed by the consumer and, where applicable, shall apply 
such payment in accordance with the consumer’s directions.
§ 811. Legal actions by debt collectors
(a)	Venue
Any debt collector who brings any legal action on a debt 
against any consumer shall—
(1)	in the case of an action to enforce an interest in real 
property securing the consumer’s obligation, bring 
such action only in a judicial district or similar legal 
entity in which such real property is located; or 
(2)	in the case of an action not described in paragraph (1), 
bring such action only in the judicial district or similar 
legal entity—
(A)	in which such consumer signed the contract sued 
upon; or 
(B)	in which such consumer resides at the commence­
ment of the action. 
(b) 	Authorization of actions
Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to authorize 
the bringing of legal actions by debt collectors.
15 USC 1692i
15 USC 1692h
14
§ 812
15 USC 1692j
§ 812. Furnishing certain deceptive forms
(a)	It is unlawful to design, compile, and furnish any form 
knowing that such form would be used to create the false 
belief in a consumer that a person other than the creditor 
of such consumer is participating in the collection of or 
in an attempt to collect a debt such consumer allegedly 
owes such creditor, when in fact such person is not so 
participating. 
(b)	Any person who violates this section shall be liable to the 
same extent and in the same manner as a debt collector is 
liable under section 1692k of this title for failure to comply 
with a provision of this subchapter.
§ 813. Civil liability
(a)	Amount of damages
Except as otherwise provided by this section, any debt 
collector who fails to comply with any provision of this 
subchapter with respect to any person is liable to such 
person in an amount equal to the sum of— 
(1)	any actual damage sustained by such person as a result 
of such failure; 
(2)	(A) in the case of any action by an individual, such 
additional damages as the court may allow, but not 
exceeding $1,000; or 
(B)	in the case of a class action, 
(i)	 such amount for each named plaintiff as could 
be recovered under subparagraph (A), and
(ii)	 such amount as the court may allow for all 
other class members, without regard to a mini­
mum individual recovery, not to exceed the 
lesser of $500,000 or 1 per centum of the net 
worth of the debt collector; and 
(3)	in the case of any successful action to enforce the 
foregoing liability, the costs of the action, together with 
a reasonable attorney’s fee as determined by the court. 
On a finding by the court that an action under this sec­
15 USC 1692k
15 USC 1692j
15
§ 813	
15 USC 1692k
tion was brought in bad faith and for the purpose of ha­
rassment, the court may award to the defendant attor­
ney’s fees reasonable in relation to the work expended 
and costs. 
(b)	Factors considered by court
	
In determining the amount of liability in any action un­
der subsection (a) of this section, the court shall consider, 
among other relevant factors—
(1)	in any individual action under subsection (a)(2)(A) of 
this section, the frequency and persistence of noncom­
pliance by the debt collector, the nature of such non­
compliance, and the extent to which such noncompli­
ance was intentional; or 
(2)	in any class action under subsection (a)(2)(B) of this 
section, the frequency and persistence of noncompli­
ance by the debt collector, the nature of such noncom­
pliance, the resources of the debt collector, the number 
of persons adversely affected, and the extent to which 
the debt collector’s noncompliance was intentional. 
(c)	Intent
	
A debt collector may not be held liable in any action 
brought under this subchapter if the debt collector shows 
by a preponderance of evidence that the violation was not 
intentional and resulted from a bona fide error notwith­
standing the maintenance of procedures reasonably adapt­
ed to avoid any such error. 
(d)	Jurisdiction
	
An action to enforce any liability created by this subchap­
ter may be brought in any appropriate United States district 
court without regard to the amount in controversy, or in 
any other court of competent jurisdiction, within one year 
from the date on which the violation occurs. 
(e)	Advisory opinions of Bureau
	
No provision of this section imposing any liability shall 
apply to any act done or omitted in good faith in confor­
mity with any advisory opinion of the Bureau, notwith­
16
§ 813
15 USC 1692k
standing that after such act or omission has occurred, such 
opinion is amended, rescinded, or determined by judicial 
or other authority to be invalid for any reason.
§ 814. Administrative enforcement
(a)	Federal Trade Commission
The Federal Trade Commission shall be authorized to 
enforce compliance with this subchapter, except to the 
extent that enforcement of the requirements imposed under 
this subchapter is specifically committed to another Gov­
ernment agency under any of paragraphs (1) through (5) 
of subsection (b), subject to subtitle B of the Consumer 
Financial Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5511 et seq.]. 
For purpose of the exercise by the Federal Trade Commis­
sion of its functions and powers under the Federal Trade 
Commission Act (15 U.S.C. 41 et seq.), a violation of this 
subchapter shall be deemed an unfair or deceptive act or 
practice in violation of that Act. All of the functions and 
powers of the Federal Trade Commission under the Federal 
Trade Commission Act are available to the Federal Trade 
Commission to enforce compliance by any person with this 
subchapter, irrespective of whether that person is engaged 
in commerce or meets any other jurisdictional tests under 
the Federal Trade Commission Act, including the power 
to enforce the provisions of this subchapter, in the same 
manner as if the violation had been a violation of a Federal 
Trade Commission trade regulation rule.
(b)	Applicable provisions of law
Subject to subtitle B of the Consumer Financial Protection 
Act of 2010, compliance with any requirements imposed 
under this subchapter shall be enforced under—
(1)	section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 
U.S.C. 1818], by the appropriate Federal banking 
agency, as defined in section 3(q) of the Federal De­
posit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(q)), with respect 
to—
15 USC 1692l
17
(A)	national banks, Federal savings associations, and 
Federal branches and Federal agencies of foreign 
banks;
(B)	member banks of the Federal Reserve System (other 
than national banks), branches and agencies of 
foreign banks (other than Federal branches, Federal 
agencies, and insured State branches of foreign 
banks), commercial lending companies owned or 
controlled by foreign banks, and organizations oper­
ating under section 25 or 25A of the Federal Re­
serve Act [12 U.S.C. 601 et seq., 611 et seq.]; and
(C)	banks and State savings associations insured by 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (other 
than members of the Federal Reserve System), and 
insured State branches of foreign banks;
(2)	the Federal Credit Union Act [12 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.], 
by the Administrator of the National Credit Union Ad­
ministration with respect to any Federal credit union;
(3)	subtitle IV of title 49, by the Secretary of Transporta­
tion, with respect to all carriers subject to the jurisdic­
tion of the Surface Transportation Board;
(4)	part A of subtitle VII of title 49, by the Secretary of 
Transportation with respect to any air carrier or any 
foreign air carrier subject to that part;
(5)	the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 [7 U.S.C. 181 et 
seq.] (except as provided in section 406 of that Act [7 
U.S.C. 226, 227]), by the Secretary of Agriculture with 
respect to any activities subject to that Act; and
(6)	subtitle E of the Consumer Financial Protection Act 
of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5561 et seq.], by the Bureau, with 
respect to any person subject to this subchapter.
	
The terms used in paragraph (1) that are not defined in this 
subchapter or otherwise defined in section 3(s) of the Fed­
eral Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1813(s)) shall have 
the meaning given to them in section 1(b) of the Interna­
tional Banking Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 3101).
§ 814	
15 USC 1692l
18
(c)	Agency powers
For the purpose of the exercise by any agency referred to 
in subsection (b) of this section of its powers under any 
Act referred to in that subsection, a violation of any re­
quirement imposed under this subchapter shall be deemed 
to be a violation of a requirement imposed under that Act. 
In addition to its powers under any provision of law spe­
cifically referred to in subsection (b) of this section, each 
of the agencies referred to in that subsection may exercise, 
for the purpose of enforcing compliance with any require­
ment imposed under this subchapter any other authority 
conferred on it by law, except as provided in subsection (d) 
of this section.
(d)	Rules and regulations
Except as provided in section 1029(a) of the Consumer 
Financial Protection Act of 2010 [12 U.S.C. 5519(a)], the 
Bureau may prescribe rules with respect to the collection 
of debts by debt collectors, as defined in this subchapter.
§ 815. Reports to Congress by the Bureau; views of other
Federal agencies 
(a)	Not later than one year after the effective date of this 
subchapter and at one-year intervals thereafter, the Bureau 
shall make reports to the Congress concerning the admin­
istration of its functions under this subchapter, including 
such recommendations as the Bureau deems necessary or 
appropriate. In addition, each report of the Bureau shall 
include its assessment of the extent to which compliance 
with this subchapter is being achieved and a summary of 
the enforcement actions taken by the Bureau under section 
1692l of this title. 
(b)	In the exercise of its functions under this subchapter, the 
Bureau may obtain upon request the views of any other 
Federal agency which exercises enforcement functions 
under section 1692l of this title.
15 USC 1692m
§ 814
15 USC 1692l
19
§ 816
15 USC 1692n
§ 816. Relation to State laws
This subchapter does not annul, alter, or affect, or exempt 
any person subject to the provisions of this subchapter from 
complying with the laws of any State with respect to debt col­
lection practices, except to the extent that those laws are incon­
sistent with any provision of this subchapter, and then only to 
the extent of the inconsistency. For purposes of this section, a 
State law is not inconsistent with this subchapter if the protec­
tion such law affords any consumer is greater than the protec­
tion provided by this subchapter.
§ 817. Exemption for State regulation
The Bureau shall by regulation exempt from the require­
ments of this subchapter any class of debt collection practices 
within any State if the Bureau determines that under the law 
of that State that class of debt collection practices is subject 
to requirements substantially similar to those imposed by this 
subchapter, and that there is adequate provision for enforce­
ment.
§ 818.	 Exception for certain bad check enforcement programs
operated by private entities
(a)	In general
(1)	Treatment of certain private entities
Subject to paragraph (2), a private entity shall be ex­
cluded from the definition of a debt collector, pursuant 
to the exception provided in section 1692a(6) of this 
title, with respect to the operation by the entity of a 
program described in paragraph (2)(A) under a contract 
described in paragraph (2)(B).
(2)	Conditions of applicability
Paragraph (1) shall apply if—
(A)	a State or district attorney establishes, within the 
jurisdiction of such State or district attorney and 
with respect to alleged bad check violations that do 
not involve a check described in subsection (b), a 
pretrial diversion program for alleged bad check 
15 USC 1692p
15 USC 1692o
15 USC 1692n
20
§ 818
15 USC 1692p
offenders who agree to participate voluntarily in 
such program to avoid criminal prosecution;
(B)	a private entity, that is subject to an administrative 
support services contract with a State or district 
attorney and operates under the direction, supervi­
sion, and control of such State or district attorney, 
operates the pretrial diversion program described in 
subparagraph (A); and
(C)	in the course of performing duties delegated to it by 
a State or district attorney under the contract, the 
private entity referred to in subparagraph (B)—
(i)	 complies with the penal laws of the State;
(ii)	 conforms with the terms of the contract and 
directives of the State or district attorney;
(iii)	does not exercise independent prosecutorial 
discretion;
(iv)	contacts any alleged offender referred to in 
subparagraph (A) for purposes of participating 
in a program referred to in such paragraph—
(I)	 only as a result of any determination by 
the State or district attorney that probable 
cause of a bad check violation under State 
penal law exists, and that contact with the 
alleged offender for purposes of participa­
tion in the program is appropriate; and
(II)	 the alleged offender has failed to pay the 
bad check after demand for payment, pur­
suant to State law, is made for payment of 
the check amount;
(v)	 includes as part of an initial written commu­
nication with an alleged offender a clear and 
conspicuous statement that—
(I)	 the alleged offender may dispute the valid­
ity of any alleged bad check violation;
(II)	 where the alleged offender knows, or has 
reasonable cause to believe, that the al­
21
§ 818	
15 USC 1692p
leged bad check violation is the result of 
theft or forgery of the check, identity theft, 
or other fraud that is not the result of the 
conduct of the alleged offender, the alleged 
offender may file a crime report with the 
appropriate law enforcement agency; and
(III)	if the alleged offender notifies the private 
entity or the district attorney in writing, not 
later than 30 days after being contacted for 
the first time pursuant to clause (iv), that 
there is a dispute pursuant to this subsec­
tion, before further restitution efforts are 
pursued, the district attorney or an employee 
of the district attorney authorized to make 
such a determination makes a determination 
that there is probable cause to believe that a 
crime has been committed; and
(vi)	charges only fees in connection with services 
under the contract that have been authorized by 
the contract with the State or district attorney.
(b)	Certain checks excluded
	
A check is described in this subsection if the check in­
volves, or is subsequently found to involve—
(1)	a postdated check presented in connection with a pay­
day loan, or other similar transaction, where the payee 
of the check knew that the issuer had insufficient funds 
at the time the check was made, drawn, or delivered;
(2)	a stop payment order where the issuer acted in good 
faith and with reasonable cause in stopping payment on 
the check;
(3)	a check dishonored because of an adjustment to the is­
suer’s account by the financial institution holding such 
account without providing notice to the person at the 
time the check was made, drawn, or delivered;
(4)	a check for partial payment of a debt where the payee 
had previously accepted partial payment for such debt;
22
§ 818
15 USC 1692p
(5)	a check issued by a person who was not competent, or 
was not of legal age, to enter into a legal contractual 
obligation at the time the check was made, drawn, or 
delivered; or
(6)	a check issued to pay an obligation arising from a 
transaction that was illegal in the jurisdiction of the 
State or district attorney at the time the check was 
made, drawn, or delivered.
(c)	Definitions
For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall 
apply:
(1)	State or district attorney
The term “State or district attorney” means the chief 
elected or appointed prosecuting attorney in a district, 
county (as defined in section 2 of title 1), municipality, 
or comparable jurisdiction, including State attorneys 
general who act as chief elected or appointed prosecut­
ing attorneys in a district, county (as so defined), mu­
nicipality or comparable jurisdiction, who may be re­
ferred to by a variety of titles such as district attorneys, 
prosecuting attorneys, commonwealth’s attorneys, 
solicitors, county attorneys, and state’s attorneys, and 
who are responsible for the prosecution of State crimes 
and violations of jurisdiction-specific local ordinances.
(2)	Check
The term “check” has the same meaning as in section 
5002(6) of title 12.
(3)	Bad check violation
The term “bad check violation” means a violation of 
the applicable State criminal law relating to the writing 
of dishonored checks.
§ 819. Effective date
This title takes effect upon the expiration of six months 
after the date of its enactment, but section 809 shall apply only 
with respect to debts for which the initial attempt to collect oc­
curs after such effective date.
15 USC 1692 note
23
 
Printed May 2013
Legislative History
House Report:	 No. 95-131 (Comm. on Banking, Finance, and Urban Affairs)
Senate Report:	 No. 95-382 (Comm. on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs)
Congressional Record, Vol. 123 (1977)
	
April 4, House considered and passed H.R. 5294.
	
Aug. 5, Senate considered and passed amended version of 
H.R. 5294.
	
Sept. 8, House considered and passed Senate version.
Enactment: 	
Public Law 95-109 (September 20, 1977)
Amendments:	 Public Law Nos.
	
99-361 (July 9, 1986)
	
101-73 (August 9, 1989)
	
102-242 (December 19, 1991)
	
102-550 (October 28, 1992)
	
104-88 (December 29, 1995)
	
104-208 (September 30, 1996)
	
109-351 (October 13, 2006)
	
111-203 (July 21, 2010)
24
