Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
37
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
38
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
39
Copyright © 2021 DRWLET
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be used
or reproduced by any means, graphic, electronic, or
mechanical, including recording, taping or by any
information storage retrevial system without the
written permission of the author except in the case of
brief quotations embodied in critical articles and
reviews.
All images used herein are the trust res of DRWLET
and are being used for illustrative purposes only.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
40
“Life is a blank canvas…it’s the part that you fear because it’s
the unknown..but you’re the artist…the canvas is only blank
because you haven’t created something yet…it’s no reason to
fear the unknown..it’s reason to create the picture you want your
life to be …so that every time you sit back and reflect on that
canvas, you can appreciate the work you’ve done”
- Amyr Samah El
Common knowledge is detrimental...Specialized knowledge
applied to real life situations is better then any currency"
There is simply no substitute for reading, so Read this E-book ....
Gain special knowledge that only the top 10% of people in the
country are utilizing. Take your time and read to understand so
that you become “one” with this knowledge. Stay Focused for
3-6 months and watch your life change.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
41
IN THIS E-BOOK YOU’LL LEARN THE FOLLOWING:
How to Repair your Consumer reports
How to sue in court
How to build your consumer reports
Hiding Credit Card Utilization
Free Credit Repair Templates in Drop Box
Free Online Public Library
An exceptional break down of Secrets to the nature of credit
repair and why you could be having problems
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
42
Understanding Consumer Credit Reports
WHAT IS A CREDIT REPORT?
A credit report can be broken down into 6 parts:
History of how well you repay debt
How long you have had credit for
Demographics/Personal information such as names, addresses (past and present),
employers, phone numbers, and any variances of such.
Amount of available credit you have. (i.e. your buying power)
How often you have applied for credit (inquiries)
Different types of credit that you have.
What is a credit report used for?
A credit report is used to determine the amount of risk in lending you money. The level
of risk is determined by 6 main factors and calculated into a credit score. The most
commonly used score is the FICO score, created by the Fair Isaac Company. This
score ranges from 300-850, the higher the score, the less of a risk you are, and the
lower the score the higher the risk. From the lender’s point of view, the lower your score
is, the more likely you are to default on a loan. So they will be less likely to approve you
for a loan, or if they do approve you, the interest rate charged on the loan will be very
high because it’s a riskier investment for them.
Note: There are different types of FICO scores, Mortgage companies use the Classic
FICO Score, Auto Lenders use the FICO Auto Industry Option Score. The difference is
quite simple, the Classic FICO Score ranks previous mortgage accounts a little higher
than all other accounts. And the Auto Industry Option Score puts more weight on
previous auto loans than other accounts.
Who maintains the credit reports (without our consent?)
Credit Reports are maintained by the Credit Reporting Agencies, also known as the
Credit Bureaus. The 5 MAIN credit reporting agencies are:
EXPERIAN
TRANSUNION
EQUIFAX
INNOVIS
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
43
PRBC
(Pay Rent, Build Credit)
What is a credit score and what are the factors?
A credit score is a number which is calculated based on the information in a person’s
credit report. The credit score is used to represent the creditworthiness of that person.
The factors of a credit score are:
Payment History 35%
Amounts Owed 29.5%
Length of Credit 15%
Credit Variance 10%
New Credit 10%
Personal Information Variances 0. 5%
The specific calculations FICO® and VantageScore use to generate credit scores are
trade secrets, but their models all operate on the same data found in your credit
report—all of which correspond directly to choices you make about borrowing and
repaying money.
Fair Isaac Corp., maker of the FICO® Score, says the following factors matter most in
its score calculations:
Payment history. Paying bills on time helps your credit score. That's the single biggest
factor, accounting for as much as 35% of your FICO® Score.
Credit utilization. Experts recommend using no more than 30% of your total credit card
borrowing limit to avoid lowering credit scores. Credit usage, also known as your credit
utilization rate, is responsible for about 30% of your FICO® Score.
Length of credit history. FICO® Scores tend to increase over time. New credit users
can't speed that up, but establishing a record of timely payments will help build scores
as credit history stretches out. Length of credit history accounts for up to 15% of your
FICO® Score.
Credit mix. Credit scores reflect your total outstanding debt and the types of credit you
use. The FICO® Score tends to favor a variety of loan types, including both installment
credit (loans with fixed monthly payments) and revolving credit (like credit cards, with
variable payments and the ability to carry a balance). Credit mix can influence up to
10% of your FICO® Score.
Recent credit applications. Applying for a loan or credit card triggers a process known
as a hard inquiry, in which the lender requests your credit score for use in its lending
decision. Hard inquiries typically lower your credit score by a few points, but as long as
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
44
you continue to pay your bills on time, scores typically rebound within a few months.
(Checking your own credit is a soft inquiry and does not impact your credit score.)
Recent credit applications can account for up to 10% of your FICO® Score.
Derogatory information. Certain credit report entries can severely lower credit scores
for extended periods of time, depending on the nature of the information. Because
these entries are not found in all credit reports, FICO® doesn't assign them percentage
weights—but when they do appear, FICO® considers them part of payment history.
The negative impact of these entries dwindles over time, but initially at least, they can
outweigh all other factors and severely drive down your credit score.
Derogatory
entries
include
accounts
sold
into
collections,
foreclosures
and
bankruptcies.
Most influential: Payment history (paying bills on time)
Highly influential: Age and type of credit (establishing a good mix of loan accounts);
percent of credit limit used (avoiding "maxing out" cards)
Moderately influential: Total balances and debt (limiting debt to what's prudent)
Less influential: Recent credit behavior and inquiries (applying for new credit); available
credit (avoiding opening unneeded credit accounts)
What is the FICO credit range? What is “Good Credit”?
Lenders want borrowers who will repay their debts, on time and as agreed upon in a
loan agreement. If a lender feels they can rely on you to do that, they say you have
"good credit," or that you're a low-risk borrower. If, based on a history of poor debt
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
45
management, a lender doubts you will pay back a loan, they consider you to have "bad
credit," and to be a high-risk borrower. Most consumers fall somewhere in the middle
of that spectrum, and credit scores help lenders understand individual borrowers' level
of credit risk.
What is a Tradeline?
A trade line is an account listed on a credit report. Each separate account is a different
trade line. Trade-line information is provided by a lender or financial institution to
credit-reporting bureaus, such as TransUnion. Trade lines are used to determine
consumers’ credit scores.
Trade lines are records of consumer credit behavior. They show the activity and status
of credit accounts. A trade line includes the creditor’s account name, an account
number and the customer’s payment status. The trade line will tell whether a consumer
is paying on time, late or not at all. It will also show how much is owed on the account.
The payment status is one of the most important bits of information in a trade line. This
information shows the consumer’s loan repayment habits, something that lenders
examine carefully when considering a loan application. Negative items such as
charge-offs and collections show up in trade lines.
There are four types of accounts in a trade line:
Installment accounts, such as a car loan or other fixed-payment loan.
Mortgage accounts.
Revolving accounts, such as credit cards or retail cards.
Open accounts, on which the buyer pays in full upon the receipt of goods.
what is a primary tradeline?
A primary tradeline is a credit account that is opened in your own name, in which the
creditor extends credit to you as the borrower. When you open up a credit card on your
own, you have a primary tradeline. This means that you are responsible for the
transactions that occur on this tradeline
What is a Secondary tradeline and Authorized User (AU)?
A credit card authorized user is a person who has permission to use another person's
credit card but isn't legally responsible for paying the bill. ... Depending on the credit
card issuer, some credit card companies provide a unique card to authorized users
linked to the holder of the primary account
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
46
As an Authorized User the history of the tradeline will appear on your credit report as a
Secondary Tradline.
Example of a trade line on a consumer credit report
Take notice the compenents of the tradeline: creditor’s account name, an account
number, date account opened, and the customer’s payment status.
The trade line will tell you what kind of account is reporting, in this case its a revolving
whether a consumer is paying on time, late or not at all. It will also show how much is
owed on the account.
What are credit inquiries?
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
47
A record of a request for your credit report is called a credit inquiry. You'll see an
inquiry on your credit report anytime someone pulls your report from one of the three
national credit bureaus.
Your credit report will tell you who has accessed your credit data and when. You will
see lenders or card issuers on your report if you have applied for credit.
Other firms may request your credit report to provide an insurance quote or a
background check. And sometimes inquiries may occur without your knowledge or
permission.
Inquiries typically stay on your credit report for about two years. But they only factor
into your FICO credit score for one year.
Public Judgments appearing on your credit reports
Since the National Consumer Assistance Plan went into effect in 2017, public records
must meet strict requirements in order to appear on consumer credit reports. Civil
judgments and tax liens do not meet these new requirements, so they were removed
from credit reports.
Although civil cases arent reported on your consumer credit report, they may be
reported elsewhere in a system commonly used by creditors to make lending
decisions.
Bankruptcy can cause a FICO score to drop by 200 points or more. A filing may lower
credit scores for seven to 10 years and be difficult to remove from a credit report unless
any information is inaccurate.
What are collections accounts?
Collections are a continuation of debt owed and can stay on your credit report for up to
7 years from the date the debt first became delinquent and was not brought current.
Debt collectors are more than likely calling you to collect payment on a collections
account.
What are derogatory accounts?
A derogatory account is one that is seriously past due. Most commonly, the term
derogatory refers to accounts that are 60 or 90 days past due or more. It also includes
collection accounts, charge-offs, repossessions and foreclosures
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
48
Basic Consumer Dispute Rights under FCRA
In 1970, Congress created the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) to protect consumers
when dealing with credit bureaus. The FCRA limits who can see a consumer’s credit
report, mandates how long negative information can remain on a report, and contains a
number of identity theft protections. The credit bureaus, which are called “consumer
reporting agencies” under the FCRA, are required to follow “reasonable procedures” to
ensure the “maximum possible accuracy” of credit reports.
One of the most critical FCRA protections is the consumer’s right to dispute errors in
his or her credit report. Under the FCRA, both the credit bureaus and the information
provider have responsibilities to investigate disputes and correct inaccurate or
incomplete information. The provider of information is often referred to as the
“furnisher.” Furnishers include banks, credit card companies, auto lenders, collection
agencies or other businesses.
If the consumer sends a dispute to a credit bureau, the bureau must investigate the
items in question, usually within 30 days. The bureau can reject the dispute if it
determines the dispute to be frivolous or irrelevant. The credit bureau must conduct a
“reasonable” investigation (sometimes called a “reinvestigation,” which is the term used
in the FCRA) that includes reviewing and considering all relevant information submitted
by the consumer. Within five days of receiving the dispute, the bureau must also notify
the furnisher of the dispute, and the notice must include “all relevant information”
provided by the consumer about the dispute.
After the furnisher receives notice of a dispute from the credit bureau, the furnisher has
its own duties under the FCRA. The furnisher must conduct an investigation, review all
relevant information provided by the credit bureau, and report the results to the bureau.
If the furnisher finds the disputed information to be inaccurate, it must notify all three of
the national bureaus so that they can correct this information in the consumer’s credit
report file.
When the investigation is complete, the credit bureau must give the consumer the
written results and a free copy of the credit report if the dispute results in a change. If
information is corrected or deleted, the credit bureau cannot put back the disputed
information in the consumer’s credit report unless the furnisher verifies that it is
accurate and complete. The credit bureau also must send the consumer a written
notice that includes the name, address, and phone number of the furnisher.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
49
Chances are your Consumer report is full of errors!
Despite the importance of accurate credit reports and the purpose of the FCRA to
promote accuracy, errors are unfortunately quite common in the credit reporting
system.
An on-line survey by Zogby Interactive found that 37% of consumers who ordered their
credit report discovered an error, and 50% of those were not easily able to correct the
error.
A study by the Consumer Federation of America and National Credit Reporting
Association documented numerous serious errors in credit reports.3 One indication of
the magnitude of such errors is the fact that 29% of credit files had a difference of 50
points or more between the highest and lowest scores from the three national credit
bureaus.
Studies from U.S PIRG and Consumers Union have found errors in 25% of credit
reports serious enough to cause a denial of credit.5 Even the trade association for the
credit bureaus – the Consumer Data Industry Association (CDIA) - has admitted that,
out of 57.4 million consumers who ordered their own credit reports, 12.5 million (or
21.8%) filed a dispute
Mixed or mismerged files occur when credit information relating to one consumer is
placed in the file of another, thus creating a false description of both consumers’ credit
histories. Mismerging occurs most often when two or more consumers have similar
names,
Social
Security
Numbers
(SSNs),
or
other
identifiers.
Example,
when
information relating to Mary L Carter is put in Mary I. Jones’ file).
Mixed or mismerged files are a frequent problem. One study found that 44% of credit
reporting complaints to the FTC involved mismerged files. Of these complaints, 64%
had total strangers’ files mixed in, while 36% involved information belonging to relatives
or former spouses. Another study found that one in ten files contained at least one, and
as many as three, additional credit reports. It was very common for the additional
reports to contain a mixture of credit information, some of which belonged to the
subject of the report requested and some which did not..
Mixed files occur largely because the credit bureaus’ computers do not use sufficiently
rigorous criteria to match consumer data precisely, even when such unique identifiers
as SSNs are present. For example, the credit bureaus will include information in a
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
50
consumer’s file even when the SSNs do not match, but other information appears to
match. Thus, they have been known to mismerge files when the consumers’ names are
similar and they share seven of nine digits in their SSN. all of this falls under the
doctrine of Idem Sonans which we will go deeper into at a later time.
Identity theft is often called the “fastest growing crime” in this country, with an
estimated eight million consumers victimized by some form of identify theft every year.
Identity theft itself presents a serious source of inaccuracies in the credit reporting
system. The identity thief, however, is not the only culprit. Credit bureaus and
furnishers bear a share of the blame as well.
The credit bureaus’ loose matching procedures, discussed above, contribute to identity
theft problems. For example, if a thief has only adopted the victim’s first name and
Social Security number but not his or her last name or address, the algorithm used by
credit bureaus to “merge” information often will incorporate the thief’s information into
the victim’s file at the time the bureau compiles the report. Once the fraudulent debt is
reported, often after default and non-payment, and especially when collectors begin
attempting skip trace searches, the account ends up merged into the victim’s file even
though many of the identifiers do not match. Accordingly, the “identity theft” is really
characterized as a hybrid of a mixed file problem.
Furnisher Errors!
Furnishers can often be the source of errors in credit reports. Furnisher inaccuracies
primarily fall into two categories types. First, the furnisher might report the consumer’s
account with an incorrect payment history, current payment status, or balance. The
error might be due to a misapplied payment or data entry error. Sometimes these errors
occur because the creditor has not complied with industry reporting standards, such as
the Metro 2 format.
The second type of dispute involves furnishers who have attributed a credit account to
a consumer who does not owe the debt, often called an “ownership dispute.” This type
of dispute often involves a spouse or other authorized user who is not contractually
liable for a debt. Other times, the consumer may have been the victim of identity theft.
According to credit reporting industry statistics, these “ownership” disputes are among
the most common, as the bureaus use the dispute code “consumer states account is
not his/hers” over 30% of the time.
Any error sent by the furnisher in its computer file automatically appears in the
consumer’s credit report, even if the information patently contradicts information
appearing in other parts of the credit report. The national credit bureaus unfortunately
fail to exercise virtually any quality control over the information initially provided to them
by furnishers. The credit bureaus blindly rely on furnishers and provide no oversight of
the quality of the information being reported. This unquestioning acceptance and
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
51
re-publication of furnisher information invites abuse. This is especially true when it
comes to debt collectors and debt buyers, who present their own special types of
errors.
Re-Aging of Debt
A type of abuse by debt collectors that results in inaccurate reporting is the “re-aging”
of obsolete debts. The FCRA requires most consumer debts to be deleted from a credit
report after seven years from the date of charge-off or 180 days after the delinquency.
“Re-aging” occurs when debt buyers purposefully misrepresent the critical date of
delinquency, which is the trigger date from which the seven years is counted. Debt
buyers report a date of delinquency that falls within the seven-year period, thus
resurrecting long dormant and nearly worthless debts with the simple act of false credit
reporting.
This problem has grown particularly prevalent and profitable in recent years with the
emergence of a multi-billion dollar distressed debt industry that buys, sells, and re-buys
large portfolios of defaulted and time-barred debt for pennies on the dollar and then
duns vulnerable consumers for inflated sums. In 2000, the FTC imposed a $2 million
civil penalty against one debt buyer, Performance Capital Management, for repeated
instances
of
re-aging
debts
as
well
as
conducting
inadequate
perfunctory
investigations.
The credit bureaus play a role in re-aging abuse as well, failing to control properly for
debt buyers who are effectively gaming their systems. The Seventh Circuit expressed
its concern over Equifax’s procedures concerning the “Date of Last Activity” field, which
is the date used by Equifax to calculate the seven year expiration period. The Seventh
Circuit noted that Equifax’s procedures for this date field could “effectively allow
Equifax the opportunity to keep delinquent accounts in the credit file past the seven
and one-half year limitation of” the FCRA.
E-OSCAR System
The credit reporting industry uses a standardized form to communicate disputes to
furnishers, called a Consumer Dispute Verification form (CDV). An automated version of
the form, communicated entirely electronically, is known as Automated Consumer
Dispute Verification (ACDV) form. The credit bureaus initiate a request for an
investigation with the furnisher by sending an ACDV through an automated on-line
processing system called “e-OSCAR” (Online Solution for Complete and Accurate
Reporting). In 2006, the industry reported that 83% of disputes were processed using
e-Oscar Furthermore, each of the three national credit bureaus had announced plans to
require that all disputes be processed using e-OSCAR.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
52
An ACDV simply consists of a few items: identifying information about the consumer in
the credit bureau’s file; one or two codes summarizing the consumer’s dispute; and, in
some cases, a one-or-two-line free-form narrative field that supplements the dispute
codes. The credit bureau employee selects a specific dispute code from among
twenty-six offered by the e-OSCAR system, such as “Not his/hers” and “Claims
account closed.” These codes are often contained in a dropdown “pick list.
This automated system is heavily dependent upon these standardized dispute codes.
Yet these codes are entirely inadequate in many instances to properly convey
information about a dispute. As many as 80% of consumer disputes are written. These
written disputes often consist of a detailed letter with supporting documentation,
painstakingly written by concerned and even desperate consumers. All of these
documents, including a consumer’s careful description of a specific dispute, fashioned
to make detection and correction easy, are reduced to a two or three digit code that the
bureau employee who glances at the material believes best describes the dispute.
The code is sent to the furnisher without supporting documentation provided by the
consumer - documents such as account applications, billing statements, letters, and
payoff statements that can show overwhelming and even conclusive proof. These
critical documents are left out of the investigation process, which itself may violate the
FCRA
Even worse, the credit bureaus reduced the number of dispute codes from 100 choices
under their prior system, to 26 under e-Oscar.33 Most shockingly, of these 26 codes,
the credit bureaus use the same four or five codes for the vast majority of all disputes.
According to the testimony provided in congressional hearings, credit bureaus used the
following codes in the following percentages of disputes:
Not his/hers 30.5%
Disputes present/previous Account Status/History 21.2%
Claims Inaccurate Information. Did not provide specific dispute 16.8%
Disputes amounts 8.8%
Claims account closed by consumer 7.0% Total 84.3%
Agents of the Major Credit Reporting Agencies
The role of the credit bureau employees allegedly assigned to “investigate” credit
reporting disputes is extremely limited. Both the internal handbooks of the credit
bureaus and evidence in FCRA lawsuits indicate that the primary job of these
employees, or in some cases outsourced vendors, is no more than selecting the
appropriate dispute codes sent to the furnisher.
all of the Credit Bureaus dispute processing manual is similar in how it instructs its
employees or vendors in relevant part:
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
53
1. Identify the Line item. (“[I]dentify the tradeline.”)
2. Open the Disputes Screen.
3. Add Claim Code(s). (“Based on the information the consumer provides, select a
Claim Code from the Claims drop-down list and chose Add.”)
4. Add Consumer Comment. (“Add a Consumer Comment if the consumer provides
additional details about the dispute that is not addressed by the current Claim
Codes.”)38
5.
Select
an
Address.
(“If
the
subscriber/data
furnisher
has
more
than
one
address….The CDV will be sent to the displayed address.”)
6. Finish opening the Dispute. (“Choose ‘Done.’”)
The only human intervention by the credit bureaus’ employees is to determine the
appropriate two-or-three-digit code to enter in a computer message to the creditor. No
independent discretion is exercised. No information is “considered” in the investigation.
The credit bureau’s employees or vendors only action is to transfer the consumer’s
written dispute, of whatever detail, into a dispute code. In fact, other than the unusual
and rare “VIP” disputes handled by the credit bureau attorneys or legal support, there is
not even human contact between the furnisher and the creditor source.
their employees are no more than data entry clerks in the dispute and investigation
process. None of the credit bureaus permit these clerks to consider and exercise
discretion over a consumer’s dispute. When an Experian credit bureau witness was
asked during another deposition, “What does Experian intend for its employees to do in
order for them to obtain and review copies of the underlying documents on the dispute
– from the creditor on the disputed account?,” the employee testified, “It’s not
Experian’s policy to require or suggest that its agent ask for any underlying documents.
Internet disputes involve even more automation, as there is usually no involvement of
the credit bureau’s personnel in the dispute process. The internet dispute forms provide
a list of on-line check-boxes to select as the basis for the dispute. The check-box
selected by the consumer is matched to one of the pick-list ACDV dispute codes and
automatically sent to the furnisher without any human intervention.
As if the automated and perfunctory nature of the e-OSCAR system were not bad
enough, furnishers contribute to the problem by conducting inadequate investigations.
Often, furnishers will merely verify the existence of disputed information, instead of
actually investigating the dispute. They will not actually research the underlying dispute,
review documents, or speak to consumers about the dispute. Instead, these furnishers
simply confirm that the information in the ACDV matches their computer records, and
then verify the disputed information to the credit bureaus.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
54
Credit Repair Organizations
credit bureaus have already developed methods to spot credit repair disputes. Credit
repair disputes are often generic in nature, making a claim such as “This account is
inaccurate” with nothing more, and thus easily separated from most legitimate disputes.
Another hallmark of credit repair disputes is that they will dispute all negative
information in a credit report without specific allegations concerning any of the with the
same envelopes or postage, or disputes in which the consumer has included the cover
letter and instructions from the credit repair organization.
A Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals has noted, the ACDV process is often “cryptic” and
“meaningless”:
It seems that Experian has a systemic problem in its limited categorization of the
inquiries it receives and its cryptic notices and responses. For example, there is the
meaningless communication [plaintiff] received from Experian in response to her notice
of dispute: “Using the information provided the following item was not found:
Grossinger City Toyota.” Another example is the opaque notice of dispute sent by
Experian to U.S. Bank: “Claims Company Will Change or Delete.” Moreover, in what
appears to be an unresponsive form letter rather than the report of an adequate
investigation into her claim, [plaintiff] was notified that the “Paid/Was a repossession”
notation would remain in her report and the only change would be the addition of:
“Account closed at consumer's request.
Remedies, Tips, and Tricks to Help Repair your Consumer Report
Hand write the entire validation letter/request for investigation. This will show that a
living man/woman has interest and is good equity jurisprudence practice (advanced
class). if you don’t want to hand write the entire letter then focus on handwriting the
account name, number and autograph at a minimum.
Send all letters at all time by certified or registered mail and return receipt requested
(PS Form 3811 USPS). We also have an advanced class that will educate you on how to
utilize the Organic Post Office vs USPS and send mail for $.04 cents per ounce! Make
sure when mailing the letters out that you have the clerk stamp the certified mail receipt
to act as a witness for receipt and delivery of the letters.
Its best to never use forms you’ve found on the internet because chances are those
letters have already been used by hundreds of thousands of people or millions and the
bureaus are on the look out for those. Scan or take a picture of all documents you mail
out.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
55
Its best practice to send the dispute letters to all major credit bureaus (they do not work
together in harmony) but also send them directly to the creditors/furnishers to reinforce
the investigation.
The dispute notice should adequately identify you as the consumer, fully identify the
account or other item being disputed, and explain why it is disputed. Otherwise, the
credit bureaus may take consumer disputes and do nothing beneficial.
If you state, “I have never had a CAPITAL ONE credit card, so delete CAPITAL ONE
account #983747,” the credit bureau will only delete an account with that number, and
not other accounts you may have with CAPITAL ONE. This is one of the most common
problem because many furnishers change account numbers after the initial dispute.
To prevent these problems, a dispute letter request should describe the full range of
accounts. For example, “I have never had a CAPITAL ONE credit card. Any CAPITAL
ONE account in my credit file is not mine and should be deleted. This includes account
#983747, as well as any other account you may be reporting, as well as any account
that may be reported by any debt collector who is reporting a debt originating from a
CAPITAL ONE account.”
Convert your letters into Affidavits by autographing them under oath. You can even
take it further and record your affidavit on the public record. An affidavit recorded on
the public record with a wet ink autograph and unrebutted, holds more weight and
stands as the truth in Law over a standard dispute letter.
Place a security freeze on with Sage and all the major bureus including Innovis. This will
prevent any new
accounts being placed on your reports and or will deny access to
creditors and other companies wanting to access your reports. you will have to be in
person to apply for cresit so that a agent/human is liable for confirming your identity
before extending credit.
Possible Remedies for Inquiries
You have a right to demand that items be investigated and removed from your report.
You should be provided proof that you consented to the inquiries via FCRA section 609
and 605 as well as accuracy of these inquiries via FCRA section 623.
The Creditor/Furnisher needs to provide you a copy of the application authorizing the
disclosure of credit files with your autograph If they cannot do so, then the inquiries
shall be deledted promptly. Request the following information :
-A description of the procedures used in your investigation
-Original documentation regarding this inquiry
-All records pertaining to actual inquiry to prove validity
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
56
According to Section 604 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act Permissible Purposes of
Consumer Reports (15 U.S. Code § 1681(b) In general), Subject to subsection (e), any
consumer reporting agency may furnish a consumer report under the following
circumstances and no other:
(F) otherwise has a legitimate business need for the information (i) in connection with a
business transaction that is initiated by the consumer.
Under 15 U.S. Code § 1681(i), Paragraph (5) Treatment of Inaccurate or Unverifiable
Information (A) In general. If, after any reinvestigation under paragraph (1) of any
information disputed by a consumer, an item of the information is found to be
inaccurate or incomplete or cannot be verified, the consumer reporting agency shall be
promptly deleted
Possible Remedies for Negative Accounts/Collections
The Furnisher/Creditor should be able to supply you with a copy of an original
documentation ( an original instrument of indebtness with your autograph on it)
as
required under Section 609 (a)(1)(A)
&
Section 611 (a)(1)(A), not to be confused with
a photocopy which is usually the reponse you get.
Request in accordance with g.a.a.p., i.f.r.s., in accordance with basel 3 accord and
u.n.c.i.t.r.a.l. conventions,
a complete audit trail of said accounts and Tax Registration
certificate. Also, the creditors need to provide a true certified copy (NOT a photocopy)
of the original note or promissory note (credit agreement) contract binding both parties
in a letter by ‘certified mail’ so that there is an independent witness to it having been
delivered.
A valid and Lawful contract MUST meet the following criteria:
A Contract must show, in its preliminary making and construction, the clear and
“Substantive Offer” made by one party, and demonstrate the “Mutual Acceptance”
affirmed by the other party.
A Contract must be producible (and exist in evidence) upon demand made by either
party to the Contract, which, in itself may be in question, dispute, or controversy.
A Contract must be produced in manifest writing, (evidence) and contain the details of
the agreements, debts, or promises, with all the terms, the obligations, and the
conditions, which clearly show and serve as proof that a valid and enforceable
obligation, promise, or debt exists.
A Contract must be a deliberate and conscious agreement made between competent
parties.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
57
A party to a contract cannot be a minor.
A Contract must be entered into by “free-will”.
A Contract must not be entered into under threat, duress, or coercion, lest it be void in
law.
A Contract must be substantive and germane to the subject matter.
A Contract must be of legal consideration. It cannot be based on an unlawful
consideration.
A Contract must possess “Mutuality of Agreement”, and “Mutuality of Obligation”.
A Contract must not be vague, unclear, uncertain, nor can it contain terms and
conditions that are not ascertainable.
A Contract must show valid signatures of the parties to the Contract instrument, in
order to verify its validity in law.
You are NOT to do a request for “verification” or proof of your mailing address, but a
request for VALIDATION made pursuant to Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, 15 USC
1692g
Sec. 809 {b} that their claim is disputed and validation is requested..
you will
respectfully request that their offices provide you with competent evidence that you
have any legal obligation to pay them.
Make sure they provide you with the following:
- What the money they say you owe them is for:
- Have them explain and show you how they calculated what they say you owe:
- Have them provide you with copies of any papers that show you agreed to pay
what they say you owe:
- Have them provide a verification or copy of any judgment if applicable:
- Identify the original creditor:
- Prove the Statute of Limitations has not expired on this account:
- Have them show you, that they are licensed to collect in your state:
- Have them provide you with their license numbers and Registered Agent or Agent
of Service
Pursuant to 15 U.S. Code § 1692d - Harassment or abuse- A debt collector may not
engage in any conduct the natural consequence of which is to harass, oppress, or
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
58
abuse any person in connection with the collection of a debt. Without limiting the
general application of the foregoing, the following conduct is a violation of this section:
(1)The use or threat of use of violence or other criminal means to harm the physical
person, reputation, or property of any person.
(2)The use of obscene or profane language or language the natural consequence of
which is to abuse the hearer or reader.
(5)Causing a telephone to ring or engaging any person in telephone conversation
repeatedly or continuously with intent to annoy, abuse, or harass any person at the
called number.
15 U.S. Code § 1681 - Congressional findings and statement of purpose; subsection (b)
Reasonable procedures It is the purpose of this subchapter to require that consumer
reporting agencies adopt reasonable procedures for meeting the needs of commerce
for consumer credit, personnel, insurance, and other information in a manner which is
fair and equitable to the consumer, with regard to the confidentiality, accuracy,
relevancy,
and
proper
utilization
of
such
information
in
accordance
with
the
requirements of this subchapter.
15 U.S. Code § 1602 - Definitions and rules of construction- (L) The term “credit card”
means any card, plate, coupon book or other credit device existing for the purpose of
obtaining money, property, labor, or services on credit. (Social Security Card)
(a)Communication with the consumer generally
Without the prior consent of the consumer given directly to the debt collector or the
express permission of a court of competent jurisdiction, a debt collector may not
communicate with a consumer in connection with the collection of any debt—
(1)at any unusual time or place or a time or place known or which should be known to
be inconvenient to the consumer. In the absence of knowledge of circumstances to the
contrary, a debt collector shall assume that the convenient time for communicating with
a consumer is after 8 o’clock antemeridian and before 9 o’clock postmeridian, local
time at the consumer’s location;
(2)if the debt collector knows the consumer is represented by an attorney with respect
to such debt and has knowledge of, or can readily ascertain, such attorney’s name and
address, unless the attorney fails to respond within a reasonable period of time to a
communication from the debt collector or unless the attorney consents to direct
communication with the consumer; or
(3)at the consumer’s place of employment if the debt collector knows or has reason to
know that the consumer’s employer prohibits the consumer from receiving such
communication.
(b)Communication with third parties- Except as provided in section 1692b of this title,
without the prior consent of the consumer given directly to the debt collector, or the
express permission of a court of competent jurisdiction, or as reasonably necessary to
effectuate a post judgment judicial remedy, a debt collector may not communicate, in
connection with the collection of any debt, with any person other than the consumer,
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
59
his attorney, a consumer reporting agency if otherwise permitted by law, the creditor,
the attorney of the creditor, or the attorney of the debt collector.
(c)Ceasing communication- If a consumer notifies a debt collector in writing that the
consumer refuses to pay a debt or that the consumer wishes the debt collector to
cease further communication with the consumer, the debt collector shall not
communicate further with the consumer with respect to such debt, except:
(1)to advise the consumer that the debt collector’s further efforts are being terminated;
(2)to notify the consumer that the debt collector or creditor may invoke specified
remedies which are ordinarily invoked by such debt collector or creditor; or
(3)where applicable, to notify the consumer that the debt collector or creditor intends to
invoke a specified remedy.
If such notice from the consumer is made by mail, notification shall be complete upon
receipt.
(d)“Consumer” defined
For the purpose of this section, the term “consumer” includes the consumer’s spouse,
parent (if the consumer is a minor), guardian, executor, or administrator.
15 U.S. Code § 1692g - Validation of debts- (a) Notice of debt; contents- Within five
days after the initial communication with a consumer in connection with the collection
of any debt, a debt collector shall, unless the following information is contained in the
initial communication or the consumer has paid the debt, send the consumer a written
notice containing
(1)the amount of the debt;
(2)the name of the creditor to whom the debt is owed;
(3)a statement that unless the consumer, within thirty days after receipt of the notice,
disputes the validity of the debt, or any portion thereof, the debt will be assumed to be
valid by the debt collector;
(4)a statement that if the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing within the
thirty-day period that the debt, or any portion thereof, is disputed, the debt collector will
obtain verification of the debt or a copy of a judgment against the consumer and a copy
of such verification or judgment will be mailed to the consumer by the debt collector;
and
(5) a statement that, upon the consumer’s written request within the thirty-day period,
the debt collector will provide the consumer with the name and address of the original
creditor, if different from the current creditor.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
60
(b) Disputed debts- If the consumer notifies the debt collector in writing within the
thirty-day period described in subsection (a) that the debt, or any portion thereof, is
disputed, or that the consumer requests the name and address of the original creditor,
the debt collector shall cease collection of the debt, or any disputed portion thereof,
until the debt collector obtains verification of the debt or a copy of a judgment, or the
name and address of the original creditor, and a copy of such verification or judgment,
or name and address of the original creditor, is mailed to the consumer by the debt
collector. Collection activities and communications that do not otherwise violate this
subchapter may continue during the 30-day period referred to in subsection (a) unless
the consumer has notified the debt collector in writing that the debt, or any portion of
the debt, is disputed or that the consumer requests the name and address of the
original creditor. Any collection activities and communication during the 30-day period
may not overshadow or be inconsistent with the disclosure of the consumer’s right to
dispute the debt or request the name and address of the original creditor.
you may want to consider filing for a name CORRECTION (Adult Name Change) so that
you can be completely exonerated from the STATE PROPERTY - ALL CAPS NAME.
This will terminate the Public Presumptions such as mistaken identity, constructive
misnomers and similar legal names under the doctrine of Idem sonans, ward of the
STATE under the doctrine of Parens patriae, loss of age of majority civilian rights under
Capitis diminution maxima - Roman Civil Loss, having an abandoned intestate
decendant's legal estate as an Absentee, Volunteer surety, and the fused relations of
the agent and principal scenarios under the doctrine of Agent-Principal. If you want to
go this route please donate to receive the guide in how to complete this process in
10-30 days and get an exemplified/Triple seal record at www.MatisseAcademy.com
Possible remedies for Verification
in accordance with g.a.a.p., i.f.r.s., in accordance with basel 3 accord and u.n.c.i.t.r.a.l.
conventions
Please provide a complete audit trail of said accounts and Tax Registration certificate!
Also, the companies below need to provide a true certified copy (NOT a photocopy) of
the original note or promissory note (credit agreement) contract binding both parties in
a letter by ‘certified mail’ so that there is an independent “witness to it having been
delivered.”
Possible Remedies in 15 U.S. Code § 6802 -
Obligations with Respect to Disclosures of Personal Information
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
61
Notice requirements- Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, a financial
institution may not, directly or through any affiliate, disclose to a nonaffiliated third party
any nonpublic personal information, unless such financial institution provides or has
provided to the consumer a notice that complies with section 6803 of this title.
“Consumer” as defined by the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act; Subsection 803 (3).
“The term “consumer” means any natural person obligated or allegedly obligated to pay
any debt.” Subsections (a) and (b) of 15 USC 6802 prohibits the disclosure of my
nonpublic personal information without my consent, furthermore none of these
companies have valid contracts with me. Please remove all accounts from any and all
Public records. This also serves as notice to you as the credit bureau If all accounts are
not removed within 7 days of receiving this affidavit, the consumer is owed actual
damages under 15 USC 1692k
HOW TO SUE THE FURNISHERS/CREDIT REPRORTING AGENCIES
Instructions:
Most creditors DO NOT abide by the laws set by the Fair Credit Act and if they do you can still sue
them. Some actions of a creditor that substantiate a law suit are: failure to validate a debt; calls you
at work or very late at night; erroneous reporting of your credit history; and, refusing to note partial
payments on your credit. Most of the time the creditors don't bother showing up, and why would
they? If the debt is for $1,000 and they have to pay an attorney, travel fees and court fees they
generally don't. Now if it's for a $25,000 credit card or maybe apartment you may not get so lucky
but you can still win your case. If they don't show up you automatically win and receive a judgment
of removal you can send to the (3) credit bureaus. By law the credit bureaus will now have to
remove the debt from your credit report, whether it's valid or not. Also, see the HIPAA section below
for medical debt.
1. Get proof (most of the time you don't need it) but take screen shots of your phone or letter
from your boss or even employee saying they called, copy of your credit report etc. You have to
build a case against these people and it's generally very easy because the majority do not follow
the laws outlined in the Fair Credit Act.
2. Every state is different so you need to check what your state's maximum is for filing in small
claims court. File your claim with the Small Claims court located in your county. Do not ever
file for the state maximum for loss, always file it for a smaller amount. To file a claim, just go to
the county courthouse and get the appropriate forms. Make sure to follow all the legal steps for
filing this claim, including notifying the other party. Every state has different forms but they are
all pretty self explanatory. Generally, there will be a section where you will insert your claim,
make sure to ALWAYS include: REMOVAL OF DEROGATORY DEBT from all three credit bureaus;
TransUnion, Experian and Equifax along with a dollar amount. This is super important. Without
this you don't really gain anything.
3. Once your claim is submitted you may have to notify the creditor or collection company. This is
the easy part. Don't bother tracking them down too much, a lot of collection companies change
addresses often. And it's in your advantage if they never receive it.
4. Once the court hearing comes, the creditor or collection representative may or may not show
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
62
up. Most often the creditor and or the collection company is not located in your county or even
state. Like I said, they generally do not for smaller debt. If they do, make sure you have your
facts strait and list what Fair Credit Act law they broke, which again is super easy because most
don't follow the laws. Please see the document for the fair credit act laws. Now if they don't
show up, you automatically win and the courts will give you your judgment (what you asked
for).
5. HIPAA laws are very strict. If you validated your debt and the collection agency provided a list of
your debt from the hospital or doctor, they violated your HIPAA rights. Your medical information can
never be shared to a third party without your consent. Some doctors and hospitals are getting smart
about this and they bury the vernacular within forms you sign. Always read these forms and draw a
line through anything that talks about sharing your information with a 3rd party. Winning a HIPAA
case is super easy and most of the time they won't show because they know they broke the law.
Just remember, suing a collection company or creditor is easy and you don't need an expensive
attorney. The cost to benefit is usually exponential. If you have a debt that's hurting your score by
50 points or more and they keep validating this is honestly your last hope. I've seen cases over
$10,000 that the creditor nor collection agency never showed and the debt was relieved, it can be
that easy. Sure it's more work for you but to have an extra 50 points on your credit or better interest
rate on your car or home it's worth it.
We have taken the liberty and added a guide below to help you with your
complaint and the proper fees you can charge for violations. Enjoy!
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
63
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
64
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
65
Building your Consumer Reports Efficiently
Overall you need 10 positive tradelines minimum.
First you need to start with Primary Tradelines. You need to have 3-5 primaries
reporting on your personal credit reports:
Try to get an unsecured Credit Card with Capital one or Discover (if you have no credit
i.e. 18-21years old). If you cannot get an unsecured credit card then you should get a
secured credit card where you might be asked for a small deposit. recommended: Citi
bank One, Capital One, US Bank, Wells Fargo, Bank Of America, or Suntrust Bank.
www.Self.inc - CD Account- $25- $150 montly payment - Guaranteed Approval -
Reports to ALL Bureaus - Can convert to Credit Card After 12 months or Receive check.
(Highly Recommended)
Myjewelersclub.com - $5000 Credit Limit - Online Store - Guaranteed Approval -
Reports to ALL bureuas
CreditStrong.com - $18,000 Credit Limit - $198 Monthly (other options avail.) -
Guaranteed Approval - No deposit - No credit Check
AGJewelrydesign.com
-
$10,000
Credit
Limit
-
Guaranteed
Approval
-
$150
membership fee - $100 annual fee
OXPublishing.com - $2500-$5000 Credit Limit - Guaranteed Approval - Online Book
store - $100 min. order - $20 monthly reporting fee - Reports to Equifax Only
Also you can have your rent reported and backdated so you can have the credit history.
Try out:
www.RentalKharma.com
www.CreditRentBoost.com
www.RentReporters.com
www.LevelCredit.com
www.RentReportTeam.com
www.RockTheScore.com
www.EsusuRent.com
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
66
Next you can deposit $500-$10,000+ for a pledge loan with Navy federal or whichever
bank you utilize. You will want to split the total amount of the loan into 5 payments of
20% and pay every week. iF THE LAST PAYMENT TO CLOSE THE LOAN IS AT THE
END OF THE MONTH, WAIT ANOTHER WEEK (SO THE LOAN CAN REPORT FOR
THE CURRENT MONTH) BEFORE YOU MAKE THE LAST PAYMENT. Rinse and
repeat 4 times if you have a credit score below 650 and rinse and repeat 8 times if you
have a credit score above 650. if you have a problem with rinse and repeating then just
try this method with 3 different banks in total.
Now you need Secondary Tradelines. (Refer back to Chapter 1 Lesson 1 on
understanding
Consuner
Credit
Reports).
You
need
to
have
3-5
Secondary
Tradelines/Authorized User Accounts reporting on your personal credit reports:
First and best option is to contact a family member or close friend who has a credit
score above 720, preferrably 750-850, and ask them if they can add you as an
authorized user to one or multiple credit cards with perfect history. tell them you just
need the history to report on your peresonal creidt report, you dont actually need the
credit card.
If the first option is not available then you can find secondary tradelines for great prices
on www.CoastTradelines.com and or www.Tradelinesupply.com
typically 3 installment tradelines and 3 revolving tradelines minimum needs to be
reporting on your credit reports. these accounts should be atleast 3 years old minimum
and above $10k credit limits. Higher limits is a sign you can handle large amounts of
credit lines. If you cannot afford or find $10k tradelines then just get as close as you can
to the suggestions.
TIPS AND TRICKS FOR FUNDING
Using Auto Loans to Build Credit (Swapalese)
Auto loans help you build your credit. Swap a lease allows you to take over someone
else’ lease. You can find a vehicle for a few months to help you build your credit.
Creditors are only financing you for the remainder of the lease. You do not have a down
payment, but it is a temporary lease. You can use that vehicle for business to drive in a
major city and advertise someone else business on their car. You can charge
businesses to advertise for them which will pay for the car payments and help you earn
money. You also could allow people to rent your car for the car payment to drive it for
UberEats or Door Dash. You are using auto loans to help you grow your credit report.
Obtaining Credit from Banks and credit unions allow you to obtain lines of credit to
obtain funding.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
67
Applying for Credit Cards.
You open 6 different windows on your computer and apply for all the credit cards
at the same time. You are applying for 6 different cards at the same time, but you are
applying for Alliant first.
Delete the inquiries from your credit report before you apply so the banks won't
deny you even if you have open accounts. When you apply for credit cards, they rely on
the income that you state that you make. Put a higher income on your application. Be
mindful your tax information can be requested. At minimum, you should have $25,000
worth of credit from your inquiries. At maximum, you should have $50,000-$60,000
worth of credit from your inquiries. It is important to know what your credit profile is with
Equifax, TransUnion, and Experian.
It is important to know which banks pull from a particular credit bureau so that you
know what cards you should apply to get. You want all of your credit profiles to be strong
with the credit bureaus, but if you have a report that is weak with one bureau, don't apply
for a card that pulls from that bureau so that it will not affect your approval.
Alliant Credit Union-Preferred Lender You have to apply to become a member with them.
They have a 2% Visa Signature Rewards Program that gives you 2% back on
whatever you spend.
If you make a donation to Alliant Credit Union, you can get access to them.
They are similar to Navy Federal Union in terms of the size of the loan limits they
give. They give $15,000-$25,000 for people with mediocre or medium-build credit.
Use Alliant to help build your credit once you get established. Open a checking account
and then apply to open a credit card. They closely examine credit inquiries, so apply with
them first. They are the strictest on credit inquiries. Alliant primarily utilizes Equifax.
HIDING YOUR UTILIZATION
Important Information on Your Credit Report
There are 3 dates on a credit card including your due date, closing date, reporting date.
Due Date-The date your bill is due.
Closing Date - The last day of a credit card's billing cycle and when the credit card
statement gets compiled for the account.
Reporting Date-The date the credit card company reports your history to the credit
bureaus.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
68
Write down your credit card limits.
Hiding Your Utilization
It is important for entrepreneurs to learn how to hide their utilization because they can
take advantage of multiple streams of income. If you have $50,000 in a line of credit,
split your credit cards so half of your lines of credit is due on either date. Make half of
them due on the 10th and half of them due on the 24th. You can change your due dates
if you contact your credit card company. You have a window in between the payment
periods to shift your debt among your cards and avoid interest payments or payments on
your balance. Switching the bills from the 10th to the 24th, hides your utilization and
allows you to have more financial flexibility. Liquidate the cards on the 24th and pay the
cards that are due on the 10th. Liquidate the cards on the 10th, and pay the cards that
are due on the 24th. This process will increase your credit limit, and you can acquire
new credit. Six months is a good amount of time for entrepreneurs to use the utilization
hiding process to allow the business to grow.
Businesses fail because they do not have funds necessary to operate. Entrepreneurs
need funds to propel and sustain their business. They have to reinvest business profits.
You can take half of your credit amount approval and invest half of the amount and hide
your utilization for 6 months and avoid worrying about interest payments. You can allow
your investment in your business to grow while flipping the money you have invested.
Put yourself in a position to win off the things you have.
How do you hide utilization when your credit cards are maxed?
You have to remove at least 30% of your credit card debt. You can follow the same
process and split the 30% utilization rate while hiding the other debt.
*Student loan debt does not affect your credit utilization rate*
Liquidating Your Credit Card Debt
You pay the credit card balances to $O for the cards due on the first half of the month
by shifting your debt to the cards due on the 24th. You are circulating the debt and
avoiding interest payments. Your credit history does not get impacted negatively and
you look like you have a positive payment history.
Credit to Close for Real Estate Investors
How do I use my credit cards to buy properties?
The underwriters cannot see you have a high credit utilization rate. Hide your utilization
so that you appear as a minimal risk to underwriters. Do not put funds in a checking
account so that they do not see that you are using your credit to secure money for a
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
69
down payment. Put the funds in a source account like a parent's account. Your parents
can give you a gift of a down payment. By allowing your parents to give you a gift of a
down payment, the underwriters are not able to see that you liquidated your debt to debt
to secure the funds for a down payment.
Travel-Perks and Benefits
Many companies such as Delta partner with other companies and offer affiliate fees
which give us discounts on industries such as travel and vehicles. These companies
have online shopping portals that allow you to earn flight miles if you shop with another
partner vendor like Macys. Use the United Shopping Portal to help you earn points that
you can use with credit cards companies. Buy from a store which allows you to return
the items in-store so the money back will be deposited in your checking account. Macys
is a good option because they have expensive Rolex watches that are $5,000-6,000.
Make a new account each time with a new email and Google voice number so that
they do not see the connection among your accounts. Airlines like Delta or United, allow
you to earn points that you can redeem for flights perks like upgraded seats for first class
seats. When you create an online shopping portal profile, you can shop for
$4,000-$5,000 in merchandise at Macys that you redeem for flight points with airlines
like Delta and United.
When you purchase your free ticket or upgrade your seats for your flight using the
points that the airlines give you for your shopping, you will have earned travel rewards
just for using your card to purchase merchandise in a store. Then, you can return that
merchandise to a store like Macys within the 30-day return period, and you will have
achieved totally free flights (Some stores like Neiman Marcus have a 60-day return
policy). The shopping portal allows you to achieve free flights.
We would like to take the time to thank you for your donation and reading this
informational E-book in its entirety. We have gifted you templates in an online Dropbox
folder and a credit card lender list as a bonus. If you’re looking to learn more ways to
generate income and or learn more specialized and unorthodox knowledge and
remedies, please visit us at www.MatisseAcademy.com and check out some of the
other E-books/Guides and classes, such as: Auto Estate Course, Huge Impact Courses,
CBD Business Course, Traffic Ticket Remedies.
Enjoy and may God be with you on your journey.
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
70
DropBox Folder:
https://www.dropbox.com/sh/9z45vxhqpi9xnca/AABeCnUGxtk6JKyHsw_MuTcVa?
dl=0
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
71
Disclaimer This E-book has been developed solely for information purposes only. The author is not giving any advice on any subject, nor giving legal, financial, or credit repair advice to anyone. We are not
attorneys and are not giving legal advice, if you need an attorney you should contact one. No part of this manual is used for legal purposes, only educational and fun purposes. When used correctly this system
will work. There are no refunds on this information. It you feel you need it done through our office we can do that for you for a fee. You should be able to complete the process faster by doing it yourself since we
are working on several clients.
Visit us @ www.MatisseAcademy.com
72
Enjoy a free online public law library with plenty of specialized knowledge and
templates to explore. www.AALawLounge.com
