The Zero Percent
Secrets of the United States,
the Power of Trust, Nationality,
Banking & ZERO TAXES!
Written By:
Du’Vaul Dey
THE ZERO PERCENT
Copyright © 2021 by Imago Dei Publishing, Inc.
All rights reserved. Printed in the United States of America. No part of this book may be
used or reproduced in any manner whatsoever without the prior written permission of the
copyright owner except in the case of brief quotations or references embodied in critical
articles or reviews.
This book is a work of non-fiction. Names, individuals, businesses, organizations, places,
events, incidents and laws are strictly used to express information made available to the
public. The information contained in this book is provided for informational purposes only,
and should not be construed as legal advice on any subject matter but considered a lawful
guide in common law. Proper counsel from a private lawyer or private professional advice is
advised from acting on the basis of any and all content included in this book. The author
and its associated persons (whether natural or artificial) may freely, write and publish their
sentiments on all subjects, being responsible for the abuse of that right; and no law shall be
passed to restrain or abridge the liberty of speech or of the press – Section Nine, 1849
California Constitution. No bill of attainder, ex post facto law, or law impairing the
obligation of contracts, shall ever be passed. Section Sixteen, 1849 California Constitution.
He who takes with notice of an equity takes subject to that equity.
For information contact:
imagodeipublishing@swissmail.com
Book and Cover design by Rasel Khondokar
Copyright Number: 00071692-1
Edited by: Du’Vaul Dey
Cover Art by: Rasel Khondokar
Formatted: Rasel Khondokar
CONTENTS
Introduction
Chapter One: The United States Corporation
Chapter Two: The 14th Amendment Citizen
Chapter Three: Existence Of Life
Chapter Four: Persons Not Required To File
Chapter Five: Eradicating Public Debt
Chapter Six: Credit Secrets, Investing & Banking
Chapter Seven: Nationality
Chapter Eight: The Temple & Trust
Acknowledgments
Introduction
M ost people are not entirely sure what they want to do or how to
go about accomplishing it. So, they resort to getting an
education, as if that's the cure-all to one's wealth aspiration.
Graduating high school or college can be a huge accomplishment for
most citizens, permanent residents, and foreign nationals in the
United States, especially if it means being the first to graduate in the
family! Being led to believe that the world's treasures are within
arm's reach and so many options for success are now available;
however, selecting the right path can be a course in itself.
After all, time is short, and time is money! Just as all people have
an innate existential drive to understand who they are and why they
are here, they also desire to create generational wealth. Some will be
fortunate enough to locate a reputable firm, put in their time, and
reach retirement or even learn a trade to one day run a successful
business, but for some, not so much. Others have been in the work
field with or without secondary education, creating one financial
plan after another, renewing paying off student loans and credit card
debt repeatedly. For some reason, the debt doesn't go away fast
enough to see a difference in life. Life feels stagnant! If only wages
covered enough monthly expenses to save enough money to
eventually fire the boss and start the right business to earn money
needed to pay off debts and finally experience freedom.
So how does one start a business? There are two types of classes
in the world; the one-percenters or the ninety-nine percenters.
Indeed, it is no secret that the best Fortune 500 companies have
high-end attorneys who manage the step-by-step setup process for
their client's businesses and at a hefty service charge that most
people may not immediately be fortunate enough to afford at first.
However, vigilance and a never-ending studious mindset position the
individuals into the one percenters' realm. Many have the investor
mentality and have thought long and hard about joining the 90% of
the world's millionaires, who earned their wealth through real estate
investing. Overall, people are just tired of the 9 to 5, Monday through
Friday, or what has become a more desirable work schedule, the
four-tens.
Certainly, time is something that cannot be refunded, and every
second deserves to be spent efficiently and by choice. Again time is
short, and time is money! Everyone has either thought about going to
the banks for cash to consolidate or invest. How the cash is managed
with the attached interest is very important. Either borrowers pay
the debt and have fun, or borrow to spend for a profit, which in turn
pays the debt and a good life. This is what intelligent investors would
call "good debt." Everyone who has prepared to enter into a
repayment agreement has planned financial strategies before the
loan application is approved. Although FICO scores may not be at
their best, with high hopes, it should be good enough for the bank to
provide funding, right?
Going into the bank can be nerve-racking, whether it's in person
with a local banker or via an online application. So many people have
experienced bankers explain credit denials with comments such as,
"It looks like Transunion and Equifax scores are exceptional;
however, the Experian score does not meet our requirements. If a co-
signer is available, we may be able to move forward!"
Sounds familiar, right? The uneasy feeling of credit rejection
from the bank is a terrible experience. Having to involve a family
member or a trustworthy friend to provide their creditworthiness is
even worse. If traditional funding fails, then what else is there for a
real estate investment deal? Indeed, all beginner real estate investors
have scoured online to find many methods of "No Money No Credit"
investment strategies from an endless list of real estate gurus. After
all, the great Robert Kiyosaki had explained in his writings that real
teachers are defined as teachers who practice what they teach. Unlike
general public school teachers, their multi-layered degrees qualify
them to teach the theory of the subject. In all actuality, generating
profits from practical experience is lacking from the public school
system teachers and professors. The truth is, no teacher or professor
in the secondary or post-secondary education sector will tell their
students that they can take today's lesson in class and go out into the
world and make a successful profit.
Several real estate gurus charge an arm and a leg for their
seminars, and worst of all, the reviews from their students alert
many people to be aware of a scam or brilliant Ponzi Scheme. The
only profit the students have made is a whopping zero.
Simultaneously, the appetite for freedom and wealth still grows,
while seeing and hearing more millionaires displaying their lavish
life or introducing a "buy my money-making course" ad on YouTube,
Tic-Tok, Facebook, Twitter, and Instagram. Their success is
attractive, but the frustration from the due diligence process can be
daunting! In America, the public schools have taught Americans, go
to school, get a job, save money in a 401k, live within their means,
finance a house, and pay taxes. And what exactly does that model
produce? Anyone who has followed that model or knows someone
who has certainly knows it most assuredly leads to more debt, on
account of the financial banking system that has been in place in the
United States ever since the enactment of the Federal Reserve Act in
1913. That system is known as a central banking operation that
functions from a fractional reserve system, which does nothing for
the economy but increases the national debt and inflates the U.S.
dollar, raising the cost of everyday goods and services.
What happens when a college degree allows a salary cap that
finally reaches a threshold and cannot sustain everyday expenses due
to inflation? The answer is more debt and more time needed to
continue education seeking another degree to earn an additional
annual $20k to $35k. Suppose an employee continues school and
completes the extra training and successfully obtains that salary
increase and reaches retirement, living off a fixed income. The cost of
everyday goods and services continues to rise, surpassing that fixed
income. What happens when the retiree's property tax becomes too
expensive because of the surrounding neighborhood's increase in
property value due to gentrification? What other options are there at
the age of retirement? As scary as it sounds, the reality is that the
elderly community is working past the age of 65 at local retail stores
and offices. It would easily make sense to increase current wage
earnings and reduce the current tax bracket to as low as Zero Percent
to encourage significant savings for other entrepreneurial endeavors.
What if Federal, State, Social Security, and Medicare taxes were not
withheld from employee earnings and did not have to be paid during
tax season? What if that were the case for self-employment 1099
information filings as well? How much of that could be saved in the
right asset-building account for the future?
There are precisely seven tax brackets for most ordinary incomes
in the United States; 10 percent tax, 12 percent tax, 22 percent tax,
24 percent tax, 32 percent tax, 35 percent tax, and 37 percent tax,
and believe it or not, tax is voluntary. Many people here in the
United States live beyond the American Dream, whether they are
United States citizens, United States nationals, or Nationals.
Many of them understand life is not a journey but instead a
process. The life of a journey goes up and down, not knowing when
or where the goal is nigh. A process is tested time and time again
with successful results, no matter the environment, and has a
foreseeable end before it begins. The wealthy understand the
necessary process of obtaining generational wealth from a simple
truth, which is understanding how the United States truthfully came
into existence, how it operates commercially, and how it applies to its
inhabitants.
The United States Constitution speaks of three different classes
of people. The people, the subjects, and the citizens! What type are
the majority today, and is one better than the other? It is a fact that
there are approximately 11 million millionaires since 2017 and 788
billionaires in the United States since 2019, and most of them do not
pay any taxes despite the famous saying, "The more you make, the
more they take." Believe it or not, it has nothing to do with illegal tax
evasion or hiding money in shell companies in tax haven countries.
What exactly do the millionaires and billionaires know, and why does
it seem like the educated alumni are the first to complete an
unemployment application during a government financial crisis?
How are the wealthy fairly procuring extreme amounts of money?
Don't the tax bracket rules eat up most of their profits? How do they
maintain good credit for 100% loan approvals several times a year?
Does it take years to save substantial amounts of money to start a
tax-exempt business? The answers to these meaningful questions
have always been at the forefront, but knowing where to look and
applying the information is another thing. Each chapter in The Zero
Percent will provide the hidden answers many financial titans keep
within their fold.
To resolve most Americans' financial issues, one must evaluate
the various strategies of real estate investing and banking, credit
secrets based on the Fair Isaac Corporation (FICO), entering a new
commercial status, all while comprehending the truth about the
United States and its affiliates. All resources are provided for anyone
to easily obtain certified copies of the undeniable evidence before the
reconstruction 
of 
the 
united 
States 
of 
America 
(republic
government). It's imperative to explain the step-by-step process to
start any business the right way and obtaining federal and state
recognition in their system to never be required to file not one tax
return statement from day one! Instead, if it is the company owner's
choice, a well-executed filing would provide a refund in the exact
amount earned in the fiscal tax year. This is just one of the many
trade-secrets kept by the one-percenters that operate under treaty
law with the United States derived from God's ordinances. The
Internal Revenue Service and the United States Treasury
Department 
are 
in 
sync 
with 
Biblical 
Treaty 
Law. 
The
commencement of business in the united States of America or
anywhere in the world requires an understanding of biblical trade
secrets regarding trust, which affects commerce; practiced by the
wealthiest nations on earth, such as the Jews, Mennonites, Chinese,
Saudi Arabians, Armenians, etc. Although the steps and procedures
are subject to change over time, learning the commerce rules will
lead to many untold truths about one's nationality and its
importance to encourage all aspects of stronger and wiser families.
Be prepared for the in depth legal jargon and it is recommended to
repeatedly read the information until fully comprehended.
T
CHAPTER ONE
The United States Corporation
he United States is a what? It's widespread that the United States
is short for saying the United States of America, but how exactly
can an entire country be on the same playing field as Apple, Amazon,
Facebook, or Microsoft corporations? It is accurate, and Congress
does not hide the truth in their codes and statutes. It may sound
awkward to the majority because the elected officials never refer to
the country as a company. In Title 28 U.S. Code § 3002 section 15,
"United States" means – (A) a Federal corporation. The United
States Corporation's Articles of Incorporation, file number 100009,
was filed with the Secretary of State of New York, July 15, 1925, with
its principal office in the Centennial Building, Tallahassee, Leon
County. Section three and four states,
The maximum number of shares, which this corporation is
authorized to have outstanding at any time is ONE HUNDRED
(100), each of which shares shall have a par value of ONE
HUNDRED DOLLARS ($100).
(Section Three)
The amount of capital with which the corporation will begin
business is FIVE HUNDRED DOLLARS ($500).
(Section Four)
A certified copy of this imperative historical document can be
obtained in Florida, revealing that the corporation is perpetual,
meaning everlasting. The certificate provides its directors as Chief
Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Secretary of the
United States Corporation. These individuals are the private officers;
the public officers known as Donald Trump and Mike Pence or Joe
Biden and Kamala Harris. However, this document is indeed not the
origin of the United States of America. In March of 1861, Abraham
Lincoln gave his first inaugural speech. Surprisingly, the address
translated to the English language from the Arabic language and
many other treaties the United States has with the Aboriginal and
Indigenous people. They were here in North, South, and Central
America, long before Columbus. A straightforward search within the
Library of Congress to find his speech titled Abraham Lincoln First
Inaugural Address (1861), which the first paragraph cites,
In compliance with a custom as old as the government itself, I
appear before you to address you briefly and to take in your
presence the oath prescribed by the Constitution of the United
States to be taken by the President before he enters on the
execution of this office. I do not consider it necessary at present
for me to discuss those matters of administration about which
there is no special anxiety or excitement. Apprehension seems to
exist among the people of the Southern States that by the
accession of a Republic Administration, their property and their
peace and personal security are to be endangered. There has
never been any reasonable cause for such apprehension. Indeed,
the amplest evidence, to the contrary, has all the while existed
and been open to their inspection. It is found in nearly all the
published speeches of him who now addresses you. I do but
quote from one of those speeches when I declare that—I have no
purpose, directly or indirectly, to interfere with the institution of
slavery in the States where it exists. I believe I have no
lawful right to do so, and I have no inclination to do so.
(Abraham Lincoln First Inaugural Address, 1861)
Some keynotes to address regarding the President's speech. First,
they are high tensions coming from the southern states regarding
their property (i.e., their slaves) and President Lincoln's policy
regarding the subject matter. He states that he has no plans to
interfere with the slave trade in those particular states. Anyone who
has studied history on a general level understands that Lincoln is
known as the Great Emancipator, who freed the "black" slaves from
involuntary servitude in 1865. Yet, he states he does not want to get
involved with the institution of slavery.
Secondly, the proof of a mistranslation from the Arabic language
to the English language when Lincoln states, "It is found in nearly all
the published speeches of "him" who now addresses you." If Lincoln
is the one giving the speech, he would not address himself as "Him"
in the third person but instead in the first person, such as, "It is
found in nearly all the published speeches that I have addressed
you." One could think, how can such a mistake happen within an
undisputable lawful congressional record? A more accurate question
would be, why is President Lincoln speaking in Arabic in his
inaugural speech in North America in 1861? Surprisingly, Latin was
the common language in the entire world. There are words in one
language that do not exist in another language to describe it
adequately. The congressional record continues to reveal that
President Lincoln explains how the corporation became to be and
quote,
Descending from these general principles, we find the
proposition that in legal contemplation, the Union is perpetual
confirmed by the history of the Union itself. The Union is much
older than the Constitution. It was formed, in fact, by the Articles
of Association, in 1774. It was matured and continued by the
Declaration of Independence in 1776. It was further matured,
and the faith of all the then thirteen States expressly plighted and
engaged that it should be perpetual, by the Articles of
Confederation in 1778. And finally, in 1787, one of the declared
objects for ordaining and establishing the Constitution was to
"form a more perfect Union."
(Abraham Lincoln First Inaugural Address, 1861)
According to President Lincoln, the United States Corporation
found its existence from the Articles of Association in 1774. So what
exactly are articles of association? The Articles is a document that
specifies the regulations for a company's operation and defines its
purpose. A company's articles of incorporation detail what the
organization can and cannot do. Including appointing directors and
handling financial records. Very similar to a select group of
individuals who decide to start a corporation or LLC, and its articles
of incorporation or organization must be approved by the state's
Secretary of State because the corporation or LLC is seeking
existence from the state in which it will transact business. The most
obvious question is, if the individuals who seek to start a company
must first obtain approval from the Secretary of State, then who
approved the United States Corporation's articles? What authority
permitted the U.S. corporation to exist? After all, Abraham Lincoln
did say that the Constitution did not come about until 1787. To
answer this question, examining the Articles of Association, 1774
itself, should provide great insight. It reads,
That from and after the first day of December next, we will not
import, into British America, from Great-Britain or Ireland, any
goods, wares, or merchandise whatsoever, or from any other
place, any such goods, wares, or merchandise, as shall have been
exported from Great-Britain or Ireland; nor will we, after that
day, import any East-India tea from any part of the world; nor
any molasses, syrups, paneles, coffee, or pimento, from the
British plantations or from Dominica; nor wines from Madeira,
or the Western Islands; nor foreign indigo.
(Article One)
We will neither import nor purchase, any slave imported after
the first day of December next; after which time, we will wholly
discontinue the slave trade, and will neither be concerned in it
ourselves, nor will we hire our vessels, nor sell our commodities
or manufactures to those who are concerned in it.
(Article Two)
The first article tells us that commerce took place under British
America, and various merchandise would cease importation from
Great Britain to East-India. A more important fact is found in the
second article, that no slave of any kind, meaning voluntary or
involuntary servitude, would be allowed due to the slave trade being
discontinued. How is it that slavery was allowed within the Southern
States as Lincoln addressed and then abolished in North America in
1865 if slavery was never intended to occur as per the initial
document that created the United States in 1774? Another fair
question is, who exactly were the slaves involved in the slave trade
during that time? A lot of attention and condemnation is directed
towards the African slave trade tragedy. The 16th and 19th century is
when this took place. However, another equally despicable trading of
humans was taking place around the same time in the
Mediterranean's 
proximity. 
The 
Barbary 
pirates 
enslaved
approximately 1.25 million Europeans, and their lives were just as
pitiful as the Africans. They were referred to as the white slaves of
the Barbary Slave Trade. Slavery is one of the oldest transactions
known to man, and the records of the slave trade date back to The
Code of Hammurabi in Babylon in the 18th century, are available.
People from virtually every significant culture, civilization, and
religious background have made slaves of their own and enslaved
other peoples. However, comparatively little attention is focused on
the prolific slave trade carried out by the pirates of corsairs along the
Barbary coast (as the Europeans called it in that period) in what is
now the empire of Morocco, Algeria, Tunisia, and Libya beginning
around 1600 AD. In the 13th and 14th centuries, Christian pirates
were primarily from Catalonia and Sicily, which conquered all
admiralty seas, posing a constant threat to merchants. It was not
until the Ottoman Empire's expansion in the 15th century that the
Barbary corsairs started to become an irritable problem to Christian
vessels. While the Barbary slave trade is depicted as Muslim corsairs
capturing white Christian victims, the pirates were not concerned
with the ethnicity or religious orientation of those held in captivity.
Slaves in Barbary could be of any color with multiple backgrounds:
black, brown or white, Catholic, Protestant, Orthodox, Jewish, or
Muslim. It was all about their class of commercial status, which
dictated slavery or not. The pirates were not only Muslim; however,
English privateers and Dutch captains of the Dutch India Trading
Company also exploited the ever-changing loyalties of how
neighboring friends could quickly become enemies and enemies'
could become colleagues with the stroke of a pen as per private
contracts.
The captive slaves by the Barbary pirates faced a dark and
horrible future. Many perished on the ships during the long voyage
back to North Africa (North America, at this time) due to disease or
lack of sustenance and hydration. Those who survived were taken to
slave markets where they would stand for hours while buyers
inspected them before selling at public or private auctions. Once
slaves were purchased, they were immediately forced to work in
several ways. Men were assigned to hard manual labor using their
strength, such as working the quarries or heavy strenuous
construction, while women and children were used for housework or
sexual servitude. At night, the slaves were placed into prisons called
bagnios that were uncomfortably hot and overcrowded. However, the
worst fate for a Barbary slave could endure working the oars of
galleys. Rowers were shackled together, seated, and never allowed to
stand or leave their post. No form of privacy was allowed in the oars,
only sleeping, eating, defecation, and urination at the oars' seat.
Managing overseers would crack the whip over the bare backs of any
slaves considered not to be working hard enough. As previously
stated, Dutch captains were working alongside the Barbary pirates,
who were associated with a significant Atlantic Slave Trade company
named the Dutch West India Company, whose native name is
Geoctrooieerde Westindische Compagnie. It was a Chartered West
India Company founded on June 3, 1621, by Willem Usselincx and
Jesse de Forest and other Dutch merchants and foreign investors.
The company was permitted a charter for a trade monopoly founded
within the Dutch West Indies. It is known that the Republic of the
Seven United Netherlands granted this permission under the empire
of Morocco and gave jurisdiction over Dutch participation in the
Atlantic Slave Trade, Brazil, the Caribbean, and North America.
Looking back at Walt Disney's Pirates of the Caribbean's film
franchise, British America always displayed their Dutch West or East
India Company flag while at sail, fighting against the pirates (i.e.,
Barbary pirates). All slaves within the company were classified as the
Dutch West India Company employees and took on the identity,
Indian! This is where the term Indian originates. The trading
company could operate in West Africa and the Americas, which
further included what is known today as the United States' outlying
possessions.
There were slaves of all skin tones coming to the Americas, not
just from Africa, contrary to popular belief, as told in public school
textbooks. To refer back to the original question, who played the
Secretary of State's role authorizing the Articles of Association of
1774 permitting the British America Corporation to transact
agricultural and merchandise business on North American lands?
The great Moor, the Sultan, in connection with his Majesty's King
George, governed many dominions and permitted the Anglo-Saxon
traders from Great Britain to begin their agricultural conquest on the
east of North America (ancient Egypt – Mehomitan Nation), which
developed into the Thirteen Colonies, which led to the development
of the Department of Agriculture in 1862. The Atlantic Slave Trade
aligned with the Dutch West India Trading Company, on the
colonies' territories, found its way into the Southern States of
America. Now, what exactly is a Moor? A Moor is currently known
today as a Black or African American, with a complexion formerly
known as swarthy (dark olive-skinned) or tawny (yellowish, red,
golden-skinned). The term Moor is throughout the I599 Geneva
Bible, describing everyone to be swarthy and tawney complexion.
The newer translated bibles purposely replace the Moors with
Phoenicians, Ethiopians, Greeks, or Hebrews. Intermarrying took
place between the Moors and the less-melanated slaves, referred to
as quadroons, a person who is one-quarter Moor ancestry, and
octoroons, a person who is one-eighth Moor ancestry, or
hexadecaroons, which is a person who has one-sixteenth Moor
ancestry. Intermarrying led to mulatto's (a person mixed white and
Moor ancestry, especially a person with one white and one Moor
parent).
The Sultan, also referred to as the Imperial Majesty, permitted
the Articles of Association of 1774 for the British America
Corporation. That very document stated that no slavery of any kind
would take place within North America. The Anglo-Saxons of Great
Britain were under slavery themselves, controlled by the British
Moors (i.e., Brutish Moors), including the European Slavic's (slaves),
and others were being mistreated and brought to North America; all
while under the reign of King George III (a Moor). The European
Slavic's, the Africans, the Octoroons, etc., and other highly
"melanated" people were branded Negro, Colored, Indian, Black
remained as slaves except for the Anglo-Saxon peoples. The others
were considered a rebel group and promoted insurrection against the
Brutish Moors. King George III was a Moor, who possessed
plenipotentiary action, ruled Britain as a Dominion of Morocco
(Mehomitan Nation) under the Sultan, and authorized the
Declaration of Independence of 1776, freeing the Anglo-Saxons from
the Brutish Moors, to inhabit the available territories of incorporated
British America within the colonies.
For a certified photograph of "His Most Sacred Majesty King
George III," write the following mailing address: "Science Museum of
London Exhibition Rd London SW7 2DD, United Kingdom" and
request an authenticated copy, as seen on the following page.
Although the Declaration of Independence of 1776 freed the
slaves, slavery was still oppressive throughout the thirteen colonial
territories. It was repackaged and sold in a new form known as
debtor camps of debtor prisons. Before diving into the debtor camps,
Abraham Lincoln stated it was the Articles of Confederation of 1778
to follow the Declaration of Independence. The former British
America Corporation would later be known as the United States of
America in Congress Assembled. The Articles of Confederation
kindly addresses all in the onset,
“To all to whom these presents shall come, We, the undersigned,
Delegates of the States affixed to our Names, send greeting:
Whereas the Delegates of the United States of America in
Congress assembled, did on November 15, in the year of our Lord
one thousand seven hundred and seventy-seven, and in the
second year of the Independence of America, agree to certain
Articles of Confederation and Perpetual Union between the
states of New Hampshire, Massachusetts bay, Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina,
South Carolina, and Georgia.”
In 1787, the United States of America's Constitution was finalized
to make a perfect union between all the states during a constitutional
convention. It was all a republic in an attempt to bring together the
Powhatan Confederacy and Iroquois Confederacy. In New York on
December 1, 1789, George Washington of the Washitaw Tribe wrote a
letter to his masonic brother, Emperor Sidi Mohammed. The letter is
fascinating due to the unknown truth that the two confederacies
(Powhatan and Iroquois) were at war with each other regarding
matters of the right to leave the property in trust to their heirs who
were Mulattos from the intermarrying with Indian women of the
Dutch slave trade. It was against the Mehomidan Law to turn over
the property from a creditor or one who held Title of Nobility over to
one who had a debtor's status, which was not of full blood descent.
Title of Nobility was the real issue that motivated the Civil War
between the confederacies and the apprehension within the Southern
States that Lincoln was referring to in his inaugural speech of 1861!
The letter from Washington to the Emperor can be found within
the Library of Congress or on founders.archives.gov/documents. It
reads,
To Sidi Mohammed, Since the Date of the Letter, which the "late
Congress," by "their President" (meaning previous republican
Moor President), addressed to your Imperial Majesty, the United
States of America have thought proper to "change their
Government," (meaning the Moors of the Continental Congress
Assembled) and to "institute a new one" (meaning from republic
to democratic) agreeable to the Constitution, of which I have the
Honor of, herewith, enclosing a Copy. The Time necessarily
employed in this arduous Task, and the Derangements
occasioned by so great, though "peaceable a Revolution"
(meaning to peacefully change the political system of one's
country), will apologize, and account for your Majesty's not
having received those regular "Advices, and Marks of Attention"
(meaning blackmail or tax payment for protected services), from
the United States, which the Friendship and "Magnanimity"
(meaning generous in forgiving an insult) of your Conduct,
towards them, afforded reason to expect. The "United States"
(meaning corporation), having unanimously appointed me to the
supreme "executive" (meaning having the power to put plans,
actions, or laws into effect) authority, in this nation, your
Majesty's Letter of the August 17, 1788, which, by Reason of the
"Dissolution" (meaning the closing down or dismissal of a
republic) of the late government, remained unanswered, has
been delivered to me. I have also received the Letters which your
Imperial Majesty has been so kind as to write, in Favor of the
United States, to the Bashaws of Tunis and Tripoli, and I present
to you the sincere acknowledgments, and Thanks of the United
States, for this important Mark of your Friendship for them. We
greatly regret that the hostile Disposition of those Regencies,
towards this nation, who have never injured them, is not to be
removed, on Terms in our power to comply with. Within our
"Territories" (meaning thirteen colonies) there are no Mines,
either of Gold, or Silver, and this young nation, just recovering
from the "Waste and Desolation of a long War" (meaning the
Civil War including the wars between Tunis, Tripoli, Iroquois
and Powhatan), have not, as yet, had time to acquire Riches by
Agriculture and Commerce. But our Soil is bountiful, and our
People industrious; and we have reason to flatter ourselves, that
we shall gradually become useful to our Friends. The
Encouragement 
which 
your 
Majesty 
has 
been 
pleased,
generously, to give to our commerce with your "Dominions"
(meaning territory of the Mehomitan Nation) the Punctuality
with which you have caused the treaty with us to be observed,
and the just and generous Measures taken, in the Case of Captain
Proctor, made a deep Impression on the United States, and
confirm their Respect for, and Attachment to your Imperial
Majesty. It gives me Pleasure to have this Opportunity of
assuring your Majesty that, while I remain at the "Head of this
Nation" (meaning United States Corporation), I shall not cease to
promote every Measure that may conduce to the Friendship and
Harmony, which so happily subsist between your Empire and
them, and shall esteem myself happy in every Occasion of
convincing your Majesty of the high Sense (which in common
with the whole nation) I entertain of the Magnanimity, Wisdom,
and "Benevolence" (meaning the quality of kindness) of your
Majesty. In the Course of the approaching Winter, the national
Legislature (which is called by the former Name of Congress) will
assemble, and I shall take Care that Nothing be omitted that may
be necessary to cause the Correspondence, between our
Countries, to be maintained and conducted in a Manner
agreeable to your Majesty, and satisfactory to all the Parties
concerned in it. May the Almighty bless your Imperial Majesty,
our great and magnanimous Friend, with his constant Guidance
and Protection. Written at the City of New York the first Day of
December 1789. –
Addressed to our great and magnanimous Friend, His imperial
Majesty, the Emperor of Morocco.
(From George Washington To Sidi Mohammed, December 1,
1789 – founders.archives.gov)
Regarding the penal colonies, as mentioned, the former Moors,
now known as the Negro, the Black, the Colored, the Octoroon, and
even the Indian employee of the Dutch slave trade, would eventually
accumulate great amounts of debt from the loss of Title of Nobility.
Working in the thirteen colonies, debts were paid to the Department
of Agriculture collections department, in contract with the Dutch
East/West India Trading Company. The inhabitants of the debtor
prisons were to work off their debt. As the Mehomidan Law was
ignored by the Moors, intermingling their seed with foreigners and
seeking to pass their inheritance to their offspring, the various wars
continued, leaving the Sultan with no choice but to strip their title of
nobility away to preserve the lands and the law. New trustees would
emerge and control their inheritance in trust, placing the Moors'
remnants to become indebted and to endure the Trials of Job. In the
Bible and the Quran, Job experienced loss and hardship that no man
has ever experienced.
The British (Anglo-Saxons, New Trustees) used colonial North
America as a penal colony through indentured servitude. Merchants
transported convicts and Indians, auctioned to plantation trustees
upon arrival to the colonies. An estimated 50,000 British convicts
(Indian employees) were delivered to colonial North America.
Transported convicts represented perhaps a quarter of all British
emigrants during the 18th century. For example, the colony of
Georgia was founded by James Edward Oglethorpe, who originally
intended to use prisoners taken largely from debtor prisons, creating
a "Debtor Colony," where the prisoners could learn trades and work
off their debts. Every photograph or paintings of a black slave adult
or child working on the plantations was attributed to this purpose, a
debtor prison or colony for nothing more than working off debts, not
slaves brought to America from Africa alone. General James Edward
Oglethorpe founded the Georgia Corporation, known today as the
State of Georgia. The General, including other trustees such as
Thomas Marriott (a forefather of JW Marriott) of the Colony of
Georgia, agreed with the Creek Nation to become the land's trustees
to collect debts owed to His Majesty, King George. The Creek Nation
lands had become populated with Dutch India Trading Company
employees (Indians) that assumed the land from the native Moors
due to intermarrying and death from the many wars. The collection
of debts to the Colony of Georgia was collected from the Indians, also
known as Five Dollar Indians, to surrender their rebellion and
insurrection against Great Britain. The trustee(s) of the Colony of
Georgia would become the equitable owners in exchange for
$300,000 as consideration, leaving the Creek Nation as "tenants in
commons." The evidence of this trade can be reviewed within the
Treaty of Savannah of 1733 and The Georgia Historical Quarterly,
March 1920, Vol. 4, No. 1, pages 3-16, which reads,
To All to Whom these Presents shall come: I Stephen Theodore
Janssen Lord Mayor of the City of London In pursuance of an act
of Parliament made and passed in the fifth year of the Reign of
our Sovereign Lord King George the Second Entitled an Act for
the more easy recovery of Debts in His Majesty's Plantations and
Colonies in America,
(Page 4 - The Georgia Historical Quarterly, March 1920, Vol. 4,
No. 1)
And they do acknowledge the Grant they have already made to
the Trustees for Establishing the Colony of Georgia in America
all the Lands upon Savannah River as far as the Ogeechee and all
the Lands along the Sea-Coast as far as the River St. John's and
as high as the tyde flows and all the Islands as far as the said
River Particularly the Islands of Frederica, Cumberland and
Amelia to which they have given the names of his Majesty King
George's Family out of gratitude to him. But they Declare that
they did and do reserve to the Creek Nation the Lands from Pipe
Maker's Bluff to Savannah and the Islands of Saint Catherines,
Ossebaw, and Sapelo; and they further declare that all the said
Lands are held by the Creek Nation as Tenants in Common –
(Page 7 - The Georgia Historical Quarterly, March 1920, Vol. 4,
No. 1)
The Charter of Georgia of 1732 can be examined from the Lillian
Goldman Law Library, The Avalon Project that reads,
And whereas we have been well assured, that if we will be most
graciously pleased to erect and settle a corporation, for the
receiving, managing and disposing of the contributions of our
loving subjects; divers persons would be induced to contribute to
the uses and purposes aforesaid-Know ye, therefore, that we
have, for the considerations aforesaid, and for the better and
more orderly carrying on the said good purposes; of our special
grace, certain knowledge and mere motion, willed, ordained,
constituted and appointed, and by these presents, for us, our
heirs and successors, do will, ordain, constitute, declare and
grant, that our right trusty and well-beloved John, lord-viscount
Percival, of our kingdom of Ireland, our trusty and well-beloved
Edward Digby, George Carpenter, James Oglethorpe, George
Heathcote, Thomas Tower, Robert Moore, Robert Hucks, Roger
Holland, William Sloper, Francis Eyles, John Laroche, James
Vernon, William Beletha, esquires, A. M. John Burton, B. D.
Richard Bundy, A. M. Arthur Bedford, A. M. Samuel Smith, A. M.
Adam Anderson and Thomas Corane, gentlemen; and such other
persons as shall be elected in the manner hereinafter mentioned,
and their successors to be elected in the manner hereinafter
directed; be, and shall be one body politic and corporate, in deed
and in name, by the name of the Trustees for establishing the
colony of Georgia in America. And we do hereby, for our heirs
and successors, ordain, will and establish, that for and during the
term of twenty-one years, to commence from the date of these
our letters patent, the said corporation assembled for that
purpose, shall and may form and prepare, laws, statutes, and
ordinances, fit and necessary for and concerning the government
of the said colony, and not repugnant to the laws and statutes of
England.
The State of Georgia is a corporation like every other "State Of,"
within the United States of America Corporation. Its trustees listed
above were the Anglo-Saxon peoples from Britain who were once
property to the British (Brutish) Moors. Shortly after the Declaration
of Independence, in 1776 and within the same year as the Articles of
Confederation, in 1778, the thirteen colonies' trustees formed the
United States. Of the thirteen colonies were the Delawares who are
also recognized as the Delaware Nation and they instituted the six
article Treaty With the Delawares, 1778. The Delaware Nation were
Moors and were nationals. They are not to be mistaken as Indians.
The treaty states,
Articles of agreement and confederation, made and, entered; into
by, Andrew and Thomas Lewis, Esquires, Commissioners for,
and in Behalf of the United States of North-America of the one
Part, and Capt. White Eyes, Capt. John Kill Buck, Junior, and
Capt. Pipe, Deputies and Chief Men of the Delaware Nation of
the other Part.
Article V.
Whereas the confederation entered into by the Delaware nation
and the United States, renders the first dependent on the latter
for all the articles of clothing, utensils and implements of war,
and it is judged not only reasonable, but indispensably necessary,
that the aforesaid Nation be supplied with such articles from
time to time, as fas as the United States may have it in their
power, by a well-regulated trade, under the conduct of an
intelligent, candid agent, with an adequate salary, one more
influenced by the love of his country, and a constant attention to
the duties of his department by promoting the common interest,
than the sinister purposes of converting and binding all the
duties of his office to his private emolument: Convinced of the
necessity of such measures, the Commissioners of the United
States, at the earnest solicitation of the deputies aforesaid, have
engaged in behalf of the United States, that such a trade shall be
afforded said nation conducted on such principles of mutual
interest as the wisdom of the United States in Congress
assembled shall think most conducive to adopt for their mutual
convenience.
Article VI.
Whereas the enemies of the United States have endeavoured, by
every artifice in their power, to possess the Indians in general
with an opinion, that it is the design of the States aforesaid, to
extirpate the Indians and take possession of their country to
obviate such false suggestion, the United States do engage to
guarantee to the aforesaid nation of Delawares, and their heirs,
all their territorial rights in fullest and most ample manner, as it
hath been bounded by former treaties, as long as the said
Delaware nation shall abide by, and hold fast the chain of
friendship now entered into. And it is further agreed on between
the contracting parties should it for the future be found
conducive for the mutual interest of both parties to invite any
other tribes who have been friends to the interest of the United
States, to join the present confederation, and to form a state
whereof the Delaware nation shall be the head, and have a
representation in Congress: Provided, nothing contained in this
article to be considered as conclusive until it meets with the
approbation of Congress. And it is also the intent and meaning of
this article, that no protection or countenance shall be afforded
to any who are at present our enemies, by which they might
escape the punishment they deserve.
The fifth article describes why the State of Delaware is known as
the First State. The Delaware Nation provided an internal agreement
to enter into trade markets with the United States. The sixth article
provides that the United States had real enemies known as the
southern States who wanted to eradicate or re-enslave all of the
Indians from the slave trade with permission from the Moors of the
Delaware Nation, including any other nations who agreed to aid the
United States. This treaty confirms that the Moors of the Delaware
Nation, including other nations, are truly aboriginal to North
America and are completely separate from the misnomer term
Indian.
One of the most popular among the Anglo-Saxons was Benjamin
(Ben' Yamin) Franklin, and he expressed who were present in not
just the Americas but also the entire face of the earth. Franklin wrote
many essays. One of his most important writings was sent to Peter
Collinson and Richard Jackson, which appeared in the Gentlemen's
Magazine for November 1755 and the Scots Magazine for April 1756.
In 1760 and 1761, it was printed, with excisions, as an appendix to
London, Dublin, Boston, and Philadelphia editions of Franklin's
Interest of Great Britain Considered. It was reprinted in part in the
London Chronicle, May 20, 1760. Franklin included it in the fourth
edition of his Experiments and Observations of Electricity, 1769. His
essay can also be found within the founders.archives.gov website;
section twenty-three and twenty-four of the essay reads,
And since Detachments of English from Britain sent to America,
will have their Places at Home so soon supply'd and increase so
largely here; why should the "Palatine" (the meaning of an
official or feudal lord having local authority that elsewhere
belongs only to a sovereign) "Boors" (meaning ill-mannered
persons) be suffered to swarm into our Settlements, and by
herding together establish their Language and Manners to the
Exclusion of ours? Why should Pennsylvania, founded by the
English, become a Colony of Aliens, who will shortly be so
numerous as to Germanize us instead of our Anglifying them,
and will never adopt our Language or Customs, any more than
they can acquire our Complexion, which leads me to add one
Remark: That the Number of purely "white" (Anglo-Saxon)
people in the world is proportionably very small. All Africa is
black or "tawny" (yellowish, red, golden light-skinned). Asia is
chiefly tawny! America (exclusive of the new Comers) wholly so!
And in Europe, the Spaniards, Italians, French, Russians, and
Swedes, are generally of what we call a "swarthy" (dark olive-
skinned) Complexion; as are the Germans also, the Saxons only
excepted, who with the English, make the principal Body of
White People on the Face of the Earth. I could wish their
Numbers were increased. And while we are, as I may call it,
Scouring our Planet, by clearing America of Woods, and so
making this Side of our Globe reflect a brighter Light to the Eyes
of Inhabitants in Mars or Venus, why should we in the Sight of
Superior Beings, darken its People? Why Increase the Sons of
Africa by Planting them in America, where we have so fair an
Opportunity, by excluding all Blacks and Tawneys, of increasing
the lovely White and Red? But perhaps I am partial to the
Complexion of my Country, for such Kind of Partiality is natural
to Mankind.
(Observations Concerning The Increase of Mankind, 1751 –
founders.archives.gov)
The main thing to take away from Mr. Franklin's words is that
269 years ago, people known today as "Blacks" or "African-
Americans" were everywhere on the earth and people known as
"Whites" are properly known as the Anglo-Saxons, are fairly new to
inhabiting the earth. A large number of people referred to as either
swarthy or tawny outnumbered them. Once the republican
government of the United States of America Corporation was formed
in 1787, its Constitution reformed to a democratic in 1789, as George
Washington mentioned in his letter to the Emperor. It was necessary
for the Moors within the First Continental Congress to establish a
treaty for commerce with Morocco's other dominions (Mehomitan
Nation). The Treaty – Between the United States of America, and His
Imperial Majesty the Emperor of Morocco of January 1787, can be
obtained through the Library of Congress. The Twenty-Six article
treaty begins with a preface addressing its Ministers and Moroccan
Ambassadors for his Majesty, the Emperor. Towards the end of the
preface, before the seal of his Majesty, it reads,
hath arranged articles for a treaty of amity and commerce
between the United States of America, and his Majesty the
Emperor of Morocco, which articles, written in the Arabic
language, confirmed by his said Majesty the Emperor of
Morocco, and sealed with his royal seal, being translated into the
language of the said United States of America, together with the
attestations thereto annexed, are in the following words, to wit:
In the Name of Almighty God. This is a Treaty of Peace and
Friendship established between us and the United States of
America, which is confirmed, and which we have ordered to be
written in this book, and sealed with our royal seal, at our court
of Morocco, on the twenty-fifth day of the blessed month of
Shaban, in the year one thousand two hundred, trusting in God it
will remain permanent.
(Treaty of Peace and Friendship – Treaties and Other
International Acts of the United States of America. Edited by
Hunter 
Miller, 
Volume 
2, 
Documents 
1-40: 
1776-1818,
Washington: Government Printing Office, 1931.)
Other evidence of the U.S. residing in Morocco (Mehomitan
Nation) can be found in Public Law 857 – August 1, 1956, which
reads,
Whereas the consuls of the United States in Morocco are
permitted to exercise jurisdiction over American nationals under
the treaty between the United States, and Morocco signed
September 16, 1836, and the Act of Algeciras signed April 7,
1906.
(Public Law 857 – August 1, 1956, 70 STAT, page 774)
To further clarify P.L. 857, the consuls of the U.S. are located in
North America (Morocco – Mehomitan Nation), and the U.S. is
permitted jurisdiction over U.S. nationals, also known as U.S.
citizens by the treaty of September 16, 1836; which is the Morocco –
Treaty of Peace. Permission over American citizens can be found in
articles twenty through twenty-three.
If any of the citizens of the United States, or any persons under
their protection, shall have any disputes with each other, the
Consul shall decide between the parties, and whenever the
Consul shall require any aid or assistance from our government
to enforce his decisions, it shall be immediately granted to him.
(Morocco – Treaty of Peace: Article twenty)
If a citizen of the United States should kill or wound a Moor, or
on the contrary, if a Moor shall kill or wound a citizen of the
United States, the law of the country shall take place, and equal
justice shall be rendered, the Consul assisting at the trial; and if
any delinquent makes his escape, the Consul shall not be
answerable for him in any manner whatever.
(Morocco – Treaty of Peace: Article twenty-one)
If an American citizen shall die in our country, and no will shall
appear, the Consul shall take possession of his effects; and if
there shall be no consul, the effects shall be deposited in the
hands of some person worthy of trust, until the party shall
appear who has a right to demand them; but if the heir to the
person deceased be present, the property shall be delivered to
him without interruption; and if a will appears, the property shall
descend agreeable to that will as soon as the Consul shall declare
the validity thereof.
(Morocco – Treaty of Peace: Article twenty-two)
The consuls of the United States of America shall reside in any
seaport of our dominion that they shall think proper, and they
shall be respected, and enjoy all the privileges which the consuls
of any other nation enjoy; and if any of the citizens of the United
States shall contract any debts or engagements, the Consul shall
not be in any manner accountable for them, unless he shall have
given a promise in writing for the payment or fulfilling thereof,
without which promise in writing, no application to him for any
redress shall be made.
(Morocco – Treaty of Peace: Article twenty-three - Treaties of
Other International Acts of the United States of America, Edited
by Hunter Miller, Volume 4, Documents 1-40: 1776-1818.)
The democracy was further matured by establishing a separate
city-state, a body corporate for the District of Columbia, formed on
February 21, 1871. The 41st Congress, Session III, Chapter 61, 62,
page 419, declares An Act to provide a Government for the District of
Columbia, known as the Organic Act of 1871. It reads,
CHAP. LXII – An Act to provide a Government for the District of
Columbia. Be it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of America in Congress
assembled, That all that part of the territory of the United States
included within the limits of the District of Columbia be, and the
same is hereby, created into a government by the name of the
District of Columbia, by which name it is hereby constituted a
body corporate for municipal purposes, and may contract and be
contracted with, sue and be sued, plead and be impleaded, have a
seal, and exercise all other powers of a municipal corporation not
inconsistent with the Constitution and laws of the United States
and the provisions of this act.
(Organic Act of 1871 – Section one, page 419)
The Organic Act of 1871 is an Act of Congress that repealed the
individual charters of the cities of Washington and Georgetown and
established a new territorial government for the whole of D.C. The
District of Columbia (controlling the world militarily) joined the
other two city-states, Vatican City (controlling the world's religion)
and London City (controlling the world's financial/law sector), to
make up the three corporations, The Empire of the City, that runs
the world. Due to the fourteenth amendment, many people,
including the Moors who once had Title of Nobility and were
creditors on their land (the Americas), lost their lawful status and
nationality and became subject to the District of Columbia by way of
the Sultan allying with the democratic United States. This truth can
be found in the Library of Congress, titled Citizenship of the United
States, Expatriation, etc.,
There are, strictly speaking, no Moroccan laws relating to
citizenship of Moorish subjects in Morocco. The fundamental
laws of this non-Christian country are based entirely upon the
Islamitic code, no part of which treats the subject of citizenship.
There are, however, numerous treaties and conventions between
the various Christian countries and the Moorish Empire, by
means of which citizenship in this country is defined; but, as I
understand, from the above-acknowledged instructions, that it is
not the desire of the Department to call for a report upon such
lines, I will, therefore, confine these remarks to general
conditions existing, which may possibly be of some use in
connection with the information desired. (1) Citizenship in
Morocco may be said to be governed by the laws pertaining to the
same in other countries, with the exception that all persons
residing in Morocco who cannot prove foreign citizenship or
protection are considered ipso jure as Moorish subjects. (2 and
3) Moorish subjects lost their nationality only by becoming
naturalized in or protected by another country having treaty
relations with the Moorish Empire.
(Citizenship of the United States, Expatriation, etc., Pages 459-
460)
The Moors lost their nationality after the Civil War by the
fourteenth amendment to the United States constitution and other
nationalities. Due to the several treaties connected with the U.S. and
through naturalization and protection from the U.S., nationality is
forfeited. The U.S. has maintained its position of power by utilizing
deceiving contracts, in which U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, and even
foreign nationals unknowingly submit consent to several contracts.
The deceptive contractual offers that promote protection and
naturalization of the United States fall within the category of
accepting benefits and privileges that the United States freely gives
its citizens within the public sector. There is a difference between
operating in public and in private. Such benefits and privileges of the
United States consist of taking uncertificated securities, including
everything related to the social security number, applications related
to "driver's" licenses, and the so-called right to "vote." All of the
above require the social security number to obtain a license or
register to vote locally and nationally. The definition of a driver is,
One employed in conducting a coach, carriage, wagon, or other
vehicles, with horses, mules, or other animals, or a bicycle,
tricycle, or motor car, though not a street railroad car.
(See Davis v. Petrinovich, 112 Ala. 654, 21 South. 344, 36 L.R.
A.615; Gen. St. Conn, 1902)
And the definition of vote is,
Suffrage; the expression of his will, preference, or choice,
formally manifested by a member of a legislative or deliberative
body, or of a constituency or a body of qualified electors, in
regard to the decision to be made by the body as a whole upon
any proposed measure or proceeding, or the selection of an
officer or representative. And the aggregate of the expressions of
will or choice, thus manifested by individuals, is called tile "vote
of the body."
(See Maynard v. Board of Canvassers, 84 Midi. 228, 47 N.W. 756,
11 L. R. A. 332; Gillespie v. Palmer, 20 Wis. 546; Davis v. Brown,
46 W. Va. 716, 34 S. E. 839)
Upon comprehending the word driver's lawful definitions, the
only person rightfully deserving of the title operates a motor vehicle
as an employee with a registered employer. It doesn't stop there;
there is more to the term driving that may come as a surprise. Per
the United States Transportation Codebook, Title 49,
(4) "motor vehicle" means a vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or
semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used on
public streets, roads, or highways, but does not include a vehicle
operated only on a rail line.
(Title 49, U.S.C. 31301 part four)
(5) "motor vehicle operator's license" means a license issued by a
State authorizing an individual to operate a motor vehicle on
public streets,
roads, or highways.
(Title 49, U.S.C. 31301, part five)
In Title 49 the United States Code 31301, section six, seven, and
eight, the definitions of driver's license, employee, and employer in
the transportation codebook as follows,
(6) "driver's license" means a license issued by a State to an
individual authorizing the individual to operate a motor vehicle
on highways.
(Title 49, U.S.C. 31301, part six)
(7) "employee" means an operator of a commercial motor vehicle
(including an independent contractor when operating a
commercial motor vehicle) who is employed by an employer.
(Title 49, U.S.C. 31301, part seven)
(8) "employer" means a person (including the United States
Government, a State, or a political subdivision of a State) that
owns or leases a commercial motor vehicle or assigns employees
to operate a commercial motor vehicle.
(Title 49, U.S.C. 31301, part eight)
And continuing in subsection 31301, part three and four, reads,
(3) A commercial driver's license means a license issued by a
State to an individual authorizing the individual to operate a
class of commercial motor vehicles.
(Title 49 U.S. Code § 31301, part three)
(4) commercial motor vehicle means a motor vehicle used in
commerce to transport passengers or property that (A) has a
gross vehicle weight rating or gross vehicle weight of at least
26,001 pounds, whichever is greater, or a lesser gross vehicle
weight rating or gross vehicle weight the Secretary of
Transportation prescribes by regulation, but not less than a gross
vehicle weight rating of 10,001 pounds;
(Title 49 U.S. Code § 31301, part four)
This is the law dealing with motor vehicles, which requires a
driver's license to operate. This is also describing what a commercial
motor vehicle is in its weight class, which requires a commercial
driver's license. But wait, the lawmakers have decided to move the
true definition of a motor vehicle from Title 49, Transportation
Codebook to Title 18, Crimes and Criminal Procedure. Title 18 U.S.
Code 31 reads,
(6) Motor Vehicles. – The term "motor vehicle" means every
description of carriage or other contrivance propelled or drawn
by mechanical power and used for commercial purposes on the
highways in the transportation of passengers and property, or
property or cargo.
(Title 49 U.S. Code § 31301, part six)
The legal code and statute state a motor vehicle is for
"commercial purposes only," carrying passengers or their property,
which requires a driver's license or commercial driver's license.
Many Americans drive small and large compact, midsize crossovers,
S.U.V.s, and trucks throughout the united States of America with
family, friends, and their furry friends. Question! Does the
government consider all of the above to be legal passengers? Well,
Title 49 U.S. Code subsection 32101, part 10 provides a clear
understanding, which reads,
(10) "passenger motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle with
motive power designed to carry not more than 12 individuals but
does not include –
(A) a motorcycle; or
(B) a truck not designed primarily to carry its operator or
passengers.
A passenger motor vehicle must be a motor vehicle that provides
a commercial purpose and seats a maximum of 12 people. Any car
sold among average families does not meet these standards. But
what exactly does this law mean when it states "motive power" for
passenger motor vehicles? Well, Merriam-Webster 1828 dictionary
defines it as,
Definition of motive power –
1) an agency (such as water or steam) used to impart
motion, especially to machinery
2) something (such as a locomotive or a motor) that
provides motive power to a system
Anyone who holds a driver's license does not drive locomotive
(cargo trains) vehicles to and from work or take their families on that
annual road trip. If people are not drivers because they are not
employees working for an employer going to the gym, grocery store,
or to and from work and they're not operating a motor vehicle
because they're not engaging in any action for commercial purposes,
then why the need for a driver's license? The legal codes and statutes
explain in the same 49th Title, subsection 32901, part 3, which reads,
(3) except as provided in section 32908 of this title, "automobile"
means a 4-wheeled vehicle that is propelled by fuel, or by
alternative fuel, manufactured primarily for use on public streets,
roads, and highways and rated at less than 10,000 pounds gross
vehicle weight,
The truth is in plain sight! Regular everyday people do not
operate motor vehicles; they operate automobiles on a non-
commercial level, not needing a driver's license. Suppose one is not
operating in a motor vehicle or passenger motor vehicle on behalf of
an employer and the "automobile" weighs less than 10,000 pounds.
In that case, that person is not "driving." They are simply traveling as
a traveler on land and not as an employed driver. In the United
States, all vehicle manufacturers have an average curb weight for
compact cars at 2,919 pounds, midsize cars at 3,361 pounds, large
cars at 3,882 pounds, compact trucks, or S.U.V's at 3,590 pounds,
midsize trucks at 4,404 pounds, and large trucks or S.U.V's at 5,603
pounds. The current largest weighing truck or S.U.V. available for
personal use and not for commercial use as an employee is the 2021
Ford F450 Super Duty Crew Cab, weighing 8,600 pounds. It is less
than the minimum curb weight requirement to classify a traveler as a
driver requiring a driver's license.
There is no code or statute within any State legislation or United
States codebook that requires anyone to have a driver's license to
operate an automobile but only for motor vehicles. Most of each
state's citizens do not operate. Most Americans have experienced an
unfortunate routine traffic stop by a policeman or state trooper and
are always required to provide some identification. "License and
registration, please!" Everyone has heard this demand and knows the
consequences of not providing specific information when asked. So,
if there is no "lawful" driver's license requirement for those operating
an automobile, then what should one use as identification along with
the registration and insurance documents? Many foreign nationals
have a way around this, but for now, it is quite simple. If one is not
an employed driver, then driving a motor vehicle is false, but instead,
more correctly, a traveler traveling public roads and highways. A
simple travel I.D. would suffice, such as a valid United States of
America Passport Card.
(e) Passport Card – A passport card is issued to a national of the
United States on the same basis as a regular passport. It is valid
only for departure from and entry to the United States through
land and seaports of entry between the United States and
Mexico, Canada, the Caribbean, and Bermuda. It is not a globally
interoperable international travel document.
(Title 22 CFR 41.3 9(e))
Passport means a travel document regardless of format issued
under the authority of the Secretary of State attesting to the
identity and nationality of the bearer.
(Title 22 CFR 51.1)
  
So, what should travelers say to any officer when pulled over on
the roadside? If one does have a driver's license, it is best to keep it
out of the officer's visibility and always have both hands on the
steering wheel, displaying a calm demeanor. Keep in mind the
driver's license is a contract, which permits the officer to issue an
unlawful summons on a public easement. If the officer asks for the
license and registration, ask the officer, "Are you seeking to identify
my nationality properly? Or are you seeking a driver's license
required for employees employed to operate a motor vehicle over
10,000 pounds for commercial purposes?" It may be wordy, but it is
absolutely what the officer needs to hear from the traveler. The
officer may try to pin the traveler into a corner, asking if the traveler
is a resident of the state or if the automobile is properly registered
with the Department of Motor Vehicles. To further entrap the
traveler into the jurisdiction of the "STATE OF" whatever state ceded
to the District of Columbia, the officer will proceed with persistence
in obtaining a driver's license. It is up to the traveler to continue to
stand their ground and provide the passport card, stating that the
passport is valid for land, sea, and air travel. No driver's license is
necessary for an automobile but only for motor vehicles over 10,000
pounds and employees operating on a commercial level. It is highly
recommended that all travelers study and be well-versed in the
subject of their state's Constitution. And not just any constitution but
a state constitution before 1933 (the year of the United States
Bankruptcy).
For example, if one lives in California State, an authenticated
certified copy of the 1849 California Constitution can be obtained as
an arsenal for any court case on the state level. If an officer continues
to request a driver's license after the traveler has presented a valid
U.S.A. Passport Card during a routine traffic stop, the traveler,
should state the following,
"Sir or Ma'am, I have provided sufficient identification to a
constitutional oath swearing officer. I would respectfully and lawfully
request that you provide an affidavit of complaint, approved by a
judge or clerk of the court, attached to your warrant to stop me and
provide a search to my effects."
The statement alerts the officer that the traveler knows their
God-given rights protected by the Constitution and confirms the
officer's limits unless the traveler has physically harmed another
citizen. Looking at the Declaration of Rights within the California
State Constitution, it reads,
The right of the "people" to be secure in their persons, houses,
papers and "effects" against unreasonable seizures and searches,
shall not be violated; and no warrant shall issue but on probable
cause, "supported by oath or affirmation," particularly describing
the place to be searched, and the persons and things to be seized.
(1849 California State Constitution, Article One – Declaration of
Rights – Section Nineteen)
Notice how section nineteen addresses the subject as "The
People" of California and not the United States' citizens or subjects,
pertaining to the District of Columbia. The people are the
Californians, and if referring to the Nevada constitution, the people
are the Nevadans or Oregonians or New Yorkers. According to this
law, all officers who swear an oath to the Constitution to uphold the
law must have a warrant based on probable cause supported by an
approved attached affidavit (supported by oath or affirmation) from
a competent judge or clerk of the court. So, how exactly is a routine
traffic stop supposed to work if a traveler has not caused any harm to
anyone? Well, simply put, suppose a traveler operating an
automobile is speeding and runs a red light without injuring anyone
in front of an officer. Constitutionally speaking, that officer is
supposed to take down the travelers license plate, pull the traveler's
information from their internal "motor vehicle" computer system,
and begin the process of filing a complaint with the local superior or
district court; awaiting approval from the clerk of court or the judge
for a certified warrant, which is a summons. The Sheriff or a deputy
within the traveler's county can then properly serve the traveler in
person at their abode for a future court date. The law-breaking
traveler could then present their case as innocent or guilty in front of
their accuser before the court.
As mentioned before, foreign nationals have a way around using
driver's licenses or passports. Driver licenses are valid within the
local police department's system, and Passports only serve their
purpose with State Trooper's registry system, so it is wise to
understand which form of I.D. is necessary when dealing with
specific law enforcement officers. However, foreign nationals and
nationals of the republic of the united States of America utilize the
laws provided in every state/country, allowing travelers to use a
foreign driver's license without the need of the DMV. For example, in
California Code, Vehicle Code – VEH § 12505 (f) states,
Subject to Section 12504, a person over the age of 16 years who is
a resident of a foreign jurisdiction other than a state, territory, or
possession of the United States, the District of Columbia, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, or Canada, having a valid driver's
license issued to him or her by any other foreign jurisdiction may
operate a motor vehicle in this state without obtaining a license
from the department unless the department determines that the
foreign jurisdiction does not meet the licensing standards
imposed by this code.
In addition to California's foreign driver's license rule, Florida is
the same in Title XXIII, Chapter 322, § 322.04 (c), which reads,
A nonresident who is at least 16 years of age and who has his or
her immediate possession a valid noncommercial driver's license
issued to the nonresident in his or her home state or country
operating a motor vehicle of the type for which a Class E driver's
license is required in this state.
A noncommercial driver's license issued from another county
allows for foreign nationals and nationals of America, who are
foreign to the "State" (Washington D.C.) falls in line with the
Convention on International Road Traffic, signed into international
law on September 19, 1949. This international treaty regulates
automobile traffic, of which the United States of America became a
member in 1952. Coupled with the foreign noncommercial driver's
license is the International Driving Permit (IDP) issued from the
driver's license country. It is valid in over 200 countries, and it
obligates the traveler to follow all the traffic laws of the jurisdiction
the traveler is operating the automobile. Some laws on the books are
not designed for public safety but are mere excuses for the local
authorities to check to see if the traveler has all documentation in
order. With an IDP, an officer will generally treat the traveler with
the utmost respect because the traveler is not in the officer's local
computer system to engage in any form of a contract, such as a
citation or a summons. IDP's can also be used to rent cars and
trucks, cash checks, show proof of age, obtain a commercial airline or
cruise ship admission ticket or general ID. It is also in the format of a
passport book and must be given to any law enforcement officer with
a foreign noncommercial driver's license. In regards to nationals
living in the republic of the united States of America, who have
personal effects (cars) as their everyday means of commuting, the
IDP and the foreign noncommercial driver's license must be paired
with the registration of the automobile with the DMV, but not in the
traveler's name. Only in the name of a Trust! Suppose the traveler
uses an IDP and foreign noncommercial driver's license with an
automobile registered in their personal "ens legis" name with a
domestic address. In that case, they are presenting a conflict of law,
and the officer will most likely cite the traveler for "false
identification."
Therefore, a Trust is a viable solution, registering the automobile
in Trust, without any liens on the property. If there is a lien, it would
be wise to utilize the Trust to lawfully challenge the creditor,
questioning lawful consideration to remove the electronic lien holder
with the Department of Motor Vehicles. The title must be at hand in
the traveler's name as proof via a Bill of Sale before the DMV can
transfer ownership to the Trust. The traveler must use a Trust name,
which presents a significant presence, such as The Merovingian 0101
Trust, and the traveler must operate the automobile at all times as
the beneficiary. A public trustee would be the person to register the
automobile at the DMV on behalf of the beneficiary and obtain the
Trust's insurance policy using their domestic driver's license.
According to their private contract, the beneficiary would give the
trustee the money to pay for the premium upfront or on monthly
installments (Declaration of Trust and Minutes of Meeting). The
public trustee would also provide the DMV with I.R.S. Form W-
8BEN to prevent being obligated to annual registration fees. Like
clockwork, the DMV will send the Trust its tags and registration
without the need for franchise fees or smog checks. A foreign trust is
not subject to the taxes owed by a domestic Trust ("State Of" or U.S.)
In the upcoming chapters, a more in-depth explanation of proper
I.R.S. forms will be provided. The beneficiary needs to obtain a new
name and foreign address listed on their foreign noncommercial
driver's license. For example, George Stuart, a New Yorker born in
Manhattan, New York, could obtain a Panama or South Wales
Australia driver's license along with the countries IDP, in the name
George Duke or George Bey. This will ensure no cross-referencing of
information should the officer perform a name search within the
DMV database.
And lastly, to perfect the foreign noncommercial driver's license
with an IDP and Trust registration process known as The Injunction
Filing. Wealthy families and communities enforce their inalienable
God-given rights, protected by the Bill or Declaration of Rights of the
State Constitution in the form of an injunction contract with the
County Sheriff. The injunction is a three-step, First Notice, Notice to
Cure, and Default Notice administration process sent via registered
restricted mail to the County Sheriff, State Chief Justice, State
Attorney General, and the State Governor's office. Once all three
servings are complete, the traveler can rest assure they have been
manually entered into a state of protection known as the "Do Not
Detain" list for total protection and respect from local law
enforcement against victimless crimes in the name of their Trust and
a foreign new name. The injunction is such a powerful tool that can
be used even if the traveler's automobile is not in Trust and they
choose to list their original state driver's license name on the "Do Not
Detain" list.
Regarding voting, the legislative members or qualified electors
are the only persons required to select an officer or representative.
There is no definition, no U.S. code, or any State code that includes
citizens or subjects of the United States to vote for any President or
Vice President. This is the reason for the existence of the Electoral
College. Taking a look at the 1838 Florida Constitution, it reads,
No special law shall be passed unless notice of intention to seek
enactment thereof has been published in the manner provided by
general law. Such notice shall not be necessary when the law,
except the provision for referendum, is conditioned to become
effective only upon approval by a vote of the electors of the area
affected.
(1838 Florida Constitution – Article III Legislature – Section
ten. Special laws)
(c) QUALIFICATIONS. Each legislator shall be at least twenty-
one years of age, an elector, and resident of the district from
which elected and shall have resided in the state for a period of
two years prior to the election. (1838 Florida Constitution –
Article 
III 
Legislature 
– 
Section 
fifteen. 
Terms 
and
qualifications of legislators)
The Department of Motor Vehicles has a role to play within voter
registration in every state. All state constitutions provide information
about those considered an elector's qualifications, electing high-
ranking officials on behalf of the United States' citizens and subjects.
Even the fourteenth amendment that caused the forfeiture of the
Moors and other nationalities provides insight on who votes for the
President 
and 
Vice 
President. 
As 
mentioned 
before, 
the
uncertificated security known as the social security number or ITIN
is a requirement for the driver's license application, at least for those
who have an SSN from the Social Security Administration, which is a
requirement to vote. Both applications play hand in hand per Title 52
of the United States codebook, which reads,
(a) In general
(1) Each State motor vehicle driver's license application
(including any renewal application) submitted to the appropriate
State motor vehicle authority under State law shall serve as an
application for voter registration with respect to elections for
Federal office unless the applicant fails to sign the voter
registration application.
(2) An application for voter registration submitted under
paragraph (1) shall be considered as updating any previous voter
registration by the applicant.
(c) Forms and Procedures
(2) The voter registration application portion of an application
for a State motor vehicle driver's license –
(c) shall include a statement that –
(i) states each eligibility requirement (including citizenship);
(ii) contains an attestation that the applicant meets each such
requirement; and
(iii) requires the signature of the applicant, under penalty of
perjury;
(Title 52 U.S. Code § 20504. Simultaneous application for voter
registration and application for motor vehicle driver's license)
The applicant's free consent enters one into a special jurisdiction
unknowingly unless the law in its entirety is read and understood.
So, why exactly do these applications matter a great deal to the
legislative officials? And what does the stripping of one's nationality
mean? And why are the electors the only ones qualified to select
certain officers and representatives? The answers are ultimately
rooted in the fourteenth amendment mentioned in the latter half of
this chapter. Before investigating this amendment, it is important to
understand how the Department of Motor Vehicles and Voter
Registration applications work together, determining citizens as
debtors. It is accomplished through the Zone Improvement Plan,
also known as the ZIP Codes. If one consents to reside in a ZIP Code,
which is voluntary, that individual has automatically given
jurisdiction to the District of Columbia and its agencies. The use of
the ZIP Code is voluntary according to Domestic Mail Services
Regulations, Section 122.32, and the United States Postal Service
cannot discriminate against the non-use of the ZIP Code. According
to the Postal Reorganization Act, Public Law 91-375 of August 12,
1970,
(c) In providing services and in establishing classifications, rates,
and fees under this title, the Postal Services shall not, except as
specifically authorized in this title, make any undue or
unreasonable discrimination among users of the mails, nor shall
it grant any undue or unreasonable
preferences to any such user.
(Section 403, page 723)
The federal government utilizes the ZIP Code program to
validate citizens reside in a "federal district of the District of
Columbia." The Internal Revenue Service and other similar agencies
(STATE and FEDERAL) require a ZIP Code when they assert
jurisdiction by sending its alleged citizens an official letter. The
United States claims the need for a ZIP Code increases mail delivery
speed and efficiency, but of course, this is a deceptive tactic. It is
prima facie evidence that the alleged citizen is a "citizen of the
District of Columbia" who is a "resident" in several States. The term
resident is defined as,
One who has his residence in a place; "Resident" and
"Inhabitant" are distinguishable in meaning. The word
"inhabitant" implies a more fixed and permanent abode than
does "resident," and a resident may not be entitled to all the
privileges or subject to all the duties of an inhabitant.
[Frost v. Brisbin, 19 Wend. (N.Y.) 11, 32 Am. Dec. 423.]
The receiving of mail accompanying a ZIP Code is one of the
requirements for the I.R.S. to have jurisdiction to send alleged
citizens notices. The government cannot bill a non-citizen of the
United States or a New Yorker national, for example, because they
are not within the purview of the MUNICIPAL LAWS of the District
of Columbia (meaning the STATE OF NEW YORK or the STATE OF
DELAWARE). The Internal Revenue Service has adopted ZIP Code
areas as Internal Revenue Districts. According to the Federal
Register Vol. 51, No. 53,
Under the command of the President to establish and alter
Internal Revenue Districts by section 7621 of the amended, and
vested in me as Secretary of the Treasury by Executive Order
10289, approved September 17, 1951, as made applicable to the
Internal Revenue Code of 1954 by Executive Order 10574,
approved November 5, 1954, and according to the authority
vested in me by section 321(b) of 31 U.S.C., and Reorganization
Plan No. 1 of 1952 as made applicable to the Internal Revenue
Code of 1954 by section 7804(a) of such code and by Executive
Order 10574, the following Internal Revenue Districts continue
as they existed before this order, with the changes noted below:
1. Designation of Internal Revenue Districts That Comprise an
Entire State:
Alabama, headquarters located in Birmingham, Alabama
Alaska, headquarters located in Anchorage, Alaska
Arizona, headquarters located in Phoenix, Arizona, etc.
(Federal Register/ Vol. 51, No. 53/ Wednesday, March 19, 1986,
page 9571)
The Postal Service is a private corporation, a quasi-governmental
agency. It is no longer a full government agency during the days of
the republic of the united States of America in Congress Assembled
in 1787 before becoming a democracy in 1789. It is now like the
Federal Reserve System, the Internal Revenue Service, and the
United States Marshall Service. They are all outside the Federal
Constitution's restrictions of 1789, as private corporations or, in
other words, a business trust. They are all-powerful in their
respective areas of responsibility to enforce collection for the federal
debt. So, suppose a person uses a ZIP Code. In that case, that person
is stating openly and notoriously that the person does not live in
Nevada State, for example, but instead a "resident" in the Nevada
Internal Revenue District (STATE OF NEVADA) of the District of
Columbia (a federal district). Many citizens are familiar with
addressing their address as JOHN DOE, 1234 Main Street, Denver,
CO 80019. This structure notifies the federal government its citizens
have yielded to its jurisdiction to adhere to all codes and statutes.
The correct form of the same address would be Doe, John, care of
[1234] Main Street, [Denver], Colorado Republic, Zip Code Exempt
(DMM 122.32) [00000]. This is the form residing outside of the
United States. No ZIP Code is needed for accurate delivery! Title 26
(The Internal Revenue Code) of the United States Codebook clearly
describes how one is held responsible or not held responsible for
filing a return, which reads,
(a) General Rule
When not otherwise provided for by this title, the Secretary shall
by regulations prescribe the place for the filing of any return,
declaration, statement, or other documents, or copies thereof,
required by this title or by regulations.
(b) Tax Returns
In the case of returns of tax required under the authority of part
II of this subchapter –
(1) Persons Other Than Corporations
(A) General Rule Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a
return (other than a corporation return) shall be made to the
Secretary –
(i) in the internal revenue district in which is located the legal
residence or principal place of business of the person making the
return, or
(ii) at a service center serving the internal revenue district
referred to in clause (i), as the Secretary may by regulations
designate.
(B) Exception Returns of –
(i) persons who have no legal residence or principal place of
business in any internal revenue district,
(ii) citizens of the United States whose principal place of abode
for the period with respect to which the return is filed is outside
the United States,
(Title 26 U.S. Code §6091. Place for filing returns or other
documents)
It should be notated from section (B) Exception Returns; any
person or business not listed within any Internal Revenue District or
any citizen whose primary place of living is "outside of the United
States" are not subjected to filing a return to the IRS. But, where
exactly is the United States located? It's no doubt a Federal
Corporation, but where is its principal place of business? Many
people and their families live in residential homes, multi-family
tracts, apartments, condominiums, mobile homes, and businesses in
several business center tracts within the 50 nation countries that
became a confederation. They would automatically think that their
abode or place of business qualifies as being within the United
States. In all actuality, the United States, after 1789, is not the 50
nation-states of the united States of America. By using the ZIP Code
classification, the alleged citizen falls in line with Article 9 – Secured
Transactions of the Uniform Commercial Code as not being a
creditor with a nation but instead a state-less debtor, which reads,
LOCATION OF DEBTOR
(a) ["Place of business."]
In this section, "place of business" means a place where a debtor
conducts its affairs.
(b) [Debtor's location: general rules.]
Except as otherwise provided in this section, the following rules
determine a debtor's location:
(1) A debtor who is an individual is located at the individual's
principal residence.
(2) A debtor that is an organization and has only one place of
business is located at its place of business.
(3) A debtor that is an organization and has more than one place
of business is located at its chief executive officer.
(c) [Limitation of applicability of subsection (b)]
Subsection (b) applies only if a debtor's residence, place of
business, or chief executive office, as applicable, is located in a
jurisdiction whose law generally requires information concerning
the existence of a nonpossessory security interest to be made
generally available in a filing, recording, or registration system as
a condition or result of the security interest's obtaining priority
over the rights of a lien creditor with respect to the collateral. If
subsection (b) does not apply, the Debtor is located in the
District of Columbia.
(h) [Location of the United States]
The United States is located in the District of Columbia.
(U.C.C. 9-307. Location of Debtor)
The United States is located in the District of Columbia. Let that
sink in once more, the United States is located in the District of
Columbia, and it has Internal Revenue Districts in all of the 50
STATES as private corporations. If one consents to reside in any of
the 50 STATES (federal districts), that person is liable for submitting
tax returns to the Secretary of the I.R.S. Another viable question is,
how exactly did all of the states become a part of the District of
Columbia? After all, the 50 states existed within the united States of
America's Constitution in 1787 before the new 1789 Constitution
leading to the Organic Act of 1871, establishing Washington D.C.
Article One of the United States constitution reveals the answer. It
reads,
To exercise exclusive Legislation in all Cases whatsoever, over
such district (not exceeding ten Miles square) as may, by Cession
of particular States, and the Acceptance of Congress, become the
Seat of the Government of the United States, and to exercise like
Authority over all Places purchased by the Consent of the
Legislature of the State in which the Same shall be, for the
Erection of Forts, Magazines, Arsenals, dock-Yard, and other
needful Buildings;
(The Constitution of The United States, Article I, Section 8,
Clause 17)
The keyword in this section of the Constitution is Cession. Each
state has voluntarily participated in Cession (meaning the formal
giving up of rights, property, or territory by a state), giving
jurisdiction over to the District of Columbia. For example, the
evidence in the preamble of the Tennessee Constitution of 1796,
We the People of the territory of the United States south of the
river Ohio, having the right of admission into the General
Government as a Member State thereof, consistent with the
Constitution of the United States and the act of Cession of the
State of North Carolina, recognizing the ordinance for the
government of the territory of the United States northwest of the
river Ohio, do ordain and establish the following Constitution or
form of government, and do mutually agree with each other to
form ourselves into a free and independent State by the name of
the "State of" Tennessee.
By Cession that the republic Tennessee State became the
democratic STATE OF TENNESSEE (federal district) or the republic
California state became the democratic STATE OF CALIFORNIA
(federal district). All of the 50 states have become a part of the
STATE OF's ceded to the District of Columbia, which is why the
fourteenth amendment states,
No State shall make or enforce any law, which shall abridge the
privileges or immunities of citizens of the United States;
(Constitution 
of 
United 
States 
of 
America 
1789, 
14th
Amendment, Section One)
The fourteenth amendment was ratified in 1868, and when it
mentions the United States, it refers to the ten square mile District of
Columbia. Suppose one is identified as a U.S. citizen, a State citizen,
a U.S. national, a Legal Permanent Resident, or State Resident
authorized by the fourteenth amendment. In that case, such a one is
liable for taxes, licenses, Real I.D.'s, state permits, and licenses. The
following questions were asked in this chapter, what is the origin of
the fourteenth Amendment? What type of person does it create, a
citizen or a subject? What does it allow a person to do or not do?
After all, isn't it an honor to be a United States citizen?
T
CHAPTER TWO
The 14th Amendment Citizen
he fourteenth amendment was officially ratified on July 9, 1868,
granting citizenship to everyone born or naturalized in the United
States, which included alleged slaves; or did it? By directly
mentioning the states' role, the fourteenth amendment greatly
expanded civil rights protections to all Americans and is cited in
countless litigation cases than any other amendment.
It's interesting to read that the fourteenth amendment is the
most cited litigation over any amendment to the Constitution.
President Donald Trump spoke heavily about the removal of the
amendment. Why is that? Could the fourteenth amendment be
illegal, fraudulent, and cause restrictions or all the above? Reading
each section of the fourteenth amendment in its entirety for a
complete understanding is paramount.
All persons born or naturalized in the United States and subject
to the jurisdiction thereof are citizens of the United States and of
the State wherein they reside. No State shall make or enforce any
law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of
the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life,
liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to any
person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.
(1789 U.S. Constitution – 14th Amendment – Section one)
Notice how the first sentence uses keywords such as born,
naturalized, the United States, and jurisdiction thereof. Again, the
United States is a federal corporation which, located in the District of
Columbia. Looking at the word born and the definition of
naturalized, it means to confer citizenship upon an alien, to make a
foreigner the same, in respect to rights and privileges, as if he or she
were a native citizen or subject per Black's Law Dictionary, Second
Edition. It would raise the question of how can someone be born into
a fictitious federal corporation, knowing the United States is in the
District of Columbia, and one is naturally born in one of the 50
countries/states? Just from the first sentence, the fourteenth
amendment does not make any lawful sense. Another fact to observe
is the word "all persons." Exactly whom is the amendment referring
to? It is an artificial person, defined as,
It is a nonhuman entity created by law and is legally different
from owning its rights and duties. Also known as a juristic
person and legal person. Refer to a body corporate.
(Black's Law Dictionary – Second Edition – Artificial Person)
A similar word is a juridical person, defined as,
An entity, as a firm, that is not a single natural person, as a
human being, authorized by law with duties and rights,
recognized as a legal authority having a distinct identity, a legal
personality. Also known as an artificial person, juridical entity,
juristic person, or legal person. Also, refer to a body corporate.
(Black's Law Dictionary – Second Edition – Juridical Person)
The fourteenth amendment is referring to a legally generated
juridical person or fictitious artificial person. According to Black's
Law Dictionary- Second Edition, a natural-born person is a human
being, naturally born, versus a legally generated juridical person. An
artificial person is created in the United States and subjected to its
jurisdiction thereof and initially created through the Certificate of
Live Birth by an elected official within the county government. This
official is the Registrar-Recorder/County-Clerk!
The second part of section one explains, No State shall make or
enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of
citizens of the United States; nor shall any State deprive any person
of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law; nor deny to
any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. All
states have ceded their power over to the District of Columbia so that
no State can make any law against Washington D.C.'s alleged
citizens. The only rules that govern the alleged citizens are any state
constitution after 1933 and any code after the ratification of the
fourteenth amendment. This is precisely where the District of
Columbia wants their alleged citizen's rights and privileges to be
derived. The second section of the fourteenth amendment dives more
into the election process, which reads,
Representatives shall be apportioned among the several States
according to their respective numbers, counting the whole
number of persons in each State, excluding Indians not taxed.
But when the right to vote at any election for the choice of
electors for President and Vice President of the United States,
Representatives in Congress, the Executive and Judicial officers
of a State, or the members of the Legislative thereof, is denied to
any of the male inhabitants of such State, being twenty-one years
of age, and citizens of the United States, or in any way abridged,
except for participation in rebellion, or other crime, the basis of
representation therein shall be reduced in the proportion which
the number of such male citizens shall bear to the whole number
of male citizens twenty-one years of age in such State.
(1789 U.S. Constitution – 14th Amendment – Section two)
Notice how several States is used with a capital "S" and not a
lower case "s" referring to the federal districts and not the several
national country/states from the republic united States of America,
1787. Section two mentions the "Representatives," who are an
entirely different group of individuals compared to the male
inhabitants or U.S. citizens over the age of 21, the electors, the
President or Vice President, and Congress members, including the
Legislatures. The specific groups of Representatives are whom "We
the People" select within local government. For example, in
Riverside County of California, the Riverside County Organization
Chart lists several departments and positions that run the county.
Jobs such as County Executive Officer, County Counsel, Public Social
Services, Economic Development Agency, Public Health, or Assistant
CEO RUHS Health and Hospital Services. These are the positions
that the people select to run their local government, and from these
selected positions, they choose the principal electors, such as the
Sheriff. The final electors have the opportunity to vote and elect the
President and Congress members on behalf of the people. Bouvier's
Law Dictionary, 1856 Edition defines Electors of President as,
Persons elected by the people, whose sole duty is to elect a
president and vice president of the U.S.
Only a select few officials hold the electors' title within Riverside
County, California, such as Sheriff-Coroner, District Attorney,
Assessor-Clerk, Auditor-Controller Treasurer-Tax Collector. It is
true; citizens choose to submit ballot tickets that allow them to place
their votes for the Sheriff, Assessor, and others. Still, the real matter
of concern is how exactly are the people's ballots considered per the
fourteenth amendment's voting procedure?
The amendment states the Representatives shall be apportioned
according to their respective numbers, counting the whole number of
male inhabitants, excluding Indians who are not taxed. Remember
that the Indians derive their name as an employee of the Dutch East
or West India Trading Company; therefore, an Indian employee was
not taxed by its third party employer (the U.S.), solely owing
allegiance to the trading company. When the right to vote for any
Representative for the choice of electors for the President and the
like, is denied to any male inhabitant or citizen of the United States
being over the age of 21, the whole number of Representatives shall
be reduced according to the whole number of male inhabitants or
citizens of the United States over the age of 21; "except" when a male
inhabitant or citizen of the United States over the age of 21 has
participated in rebellion or committed a crime, then the
Representatives respective numbers shall usurp the whole number of
male inhabitants or citizens of the United States over the age of 21.
Many citizens of the United States would claim that they have
not committed any crimes or engaged in any form of rebellion
against the United States. And should meet the requirement of
having the right to vote for a Representative for the choice of electors
for the President and the like, let alone choose the President
themselves if they could. It is essential to understand that after 1789
and under the Organic Act of 1871, the United States is located in
D.C. and is not a country; it is a federal corporation consisting of
Presidents, Chief Executive Officers, Chief Financial Officers,
Chairman's and Secretary's. Countries have Kings, Queens, Princes,
Grand Dukes, Emperors, Caesars, Khans, Sultans, and others.
Therefore, a corporation is never to rely on the public to elect its
Presidents or Chairmans. It would indeed be the responsibility of
those who hold the highest number of shares in the company's
certificates. It is beginning to make sense as to why this amendment
has been the most talked-about amendment within every United
States court.
If male inhabitants or citizens of the United States over the age of
21 participate in rebellion or commit crimes against the United
States, their right to vote (abridged) would be forfeited against the
number of Representatives within the local government. It would be
their whole number to exceed the entire amount of the people they
represent. How is this possible? What crime could have been
committed unknowingly by the citizens of the United States? The
answer has always been in plain sight, especially to the U.S. citizens
who travel the world. To move across the earth, one must apply for a
United States of America Passport. The actual application allows
each applicant to voluntarily state that he or she is a criminal or not!
From the use of federal and state forms, the United States federal
government can reduce the number of male inhabitants or citizens of
the United States over the age of 21 against the Representatives for
electors' choice. Mostly, all Americans are familiar with the DS-11
passport application. Jumping to page 4 and focusing on the section
titled "ACTS OR CONDITIONS," the federal government, in their
crafty ways, has deemed U.S. citizens to be criminals and rebel
against the United States if they are not careful in comprehending
instructions. It reads,
If any of the below-mentioned acts or conditions have been
performed by or apply to the applicant, "the portion which
applies should be lined out," and a "supplementary explanatory
statement" under oath (or affirmation) by the applicant should
be "attached and made a part of this application."
With full comprehension of the first sentence regarding
instructions, how many Americans have drawn a line through select
wording in the Acts or Conditions portion of the application and
provided a supplementary explanatory statement in the form of an
affidavit? It clearly says the part, which applies, should be "lined out"
on the actual application. Everyone has been taught to cross out or
line out sections whenever it "does not" apply, but here within the
DS-11 passport application, it is the opposite. The next sentence
reads,
I have not, since acquiring United States citizenship/nationality,
been naturalized as a citizen of a foreign state; taken an oath or
made an affirmation or other formal declaration of allegiance to
a foreign state; entered or served in the armed forces of a foreign
state; accepted or performed the duties of any office, post, or
employment under the government of a foreign state or political
subdivision thereof; made a formal renunciation of nationality
either in the United States, or before a diplomatic or consular
officer of the United States in a foreign state; or been convicted
by a court or court-martial of competent jurisdiction of
committing any act of treason against, or attempting by force to
overthrow, or bearing arms against, the United States, or
conspiring to overthrow, put down, or to destroy by force, the
government of the United States.
Furthermore, I have not been convicted of a federal or state drug
offense or convicted of a "sex tourism" crimes statute, and I am
not the subject of an outstanding federal, state, or local warrant
of arrest for a felony; a criminal court order forbidding my
departure from the United States; a subpoena received from the
United States in a matter involving federal prosecution for, or
grand jury investigation of, a felony.
It's fascinating to see what Americans sign before understanding
word for word and how it implies to them. This is one of many tactics
the federal government entraps the people into voluntary
participation in rebellion, which is considered a criminal offense. If
one wanted to submit a correct DS-11 passport application with
information on how to complete an explanatory statement, it is
thoroughly detailed in the "Nationality" chapter of this book. The
following is how to "line out" the portion, which applies to the
applicant as a non-criminal. I have...taken an oath...made an
affirmation…formal declaration of allegiance to a foreign state; made
a 
formal 
renunciation 
of 
nationality...in 
the 
United
States...Furthermore, I have not been convicted of a federal or state
drug offense or convicted of a "sex tourism" crimes statute, and I am
not the subject of an outstanding federal, state, or local warrant of
arrest for a felony; a criminal court order forbidding my departure
from the United States; a subpoena received from the United States
in a matter involving federal prosecution for, or grand jury
investigation of, a felony.
Simply line out the applicable words in the "ACTS OR
CONDITIONS" section of the DS-11 Passport Application. By doing
this, Americans have just prevented themselves from allegedly
participating in rebellion or openly admitting to a federal or state
criminal offense, which is on record with the Department of State
that can be obtained as a Freedom Of Information Act request.
Continuing with section three of the fourteenth amendment, reads,
No person shall be a Senator or Representative in Congress, or
elector of President and Vice President, or hold any office, civil or
military, under the United States, or under any State, who,
having previously taken an oath, as a member of Congress, or as
an officer of the United States, or as a member of any State
Legislature, or as an executive or judicial officer of any State, to
support the Constitution of the United States, shall have engaged
in insurrection or rebellion against the same, or given aid or
comfort to the enemies thereof. But Congress may, by a vote of
two-thirds of each House, remove such disability.
(1789 U.S. Constitution – 14th Amendment – Section three)
Section three gives more of a precise description that no
fourteenth amendment citizen by way of section one can be a
Senator, Representative of Congress, or, more importantly, "an
elector of the President or Vice President." Senators, Representatives
of Congress, Executive, Judicial or Legislative officers, or electors are
not U.S. citizens or U.S. nationals. They hold a higher lawful status
than the legal status of a citizen of the United States. They are
nationals but NOT a U.S. citizen per Public Law 94-241 – March 24,
1976. Nationals are "the People." U.S. citizens do not select the
United States President or Vice President. Their ballots are simply
surveys informing the corporate leaders of the whereabouts of the
people's opinions on specific political topics. Once again, it is the
people, nationals, who can select their Representatives within local
government, who then choose county electors, who then elect the
Senators, Representatives in Congress, and the Presidents or Vice
Presidents. According to section four of the amendment,
The validity of the public debt of the United States, authorized by
law, including debts incurred for payment of pensions and
bounties for services in suppressing insurrection or rebellion,
shall not be questioned. But neither the United States nor any
State shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid
of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, or any
claim for the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such
debts, obligations, and claims shall be held illegal and void.
(1789 U.S. Constitution – 14th Amendment – Section four)
A community referred to as the Secured Party Creditor
movement or the Patriot movement claims that there is no lawful
money since 1933. The basis of this observation comes from the
federal government demanding all citizens to turn in their precious
metals in exchange for paper fiat currency. In fact, there is lawful
money, and debts can be questioned for discharge, but it must be
done through a particular vehicle known as a Trust, as a natural
person. The federal government left the choice up to the people to
have lawful money. They either expand the national public debt
using fiat currency or utilize private treasury notes, which cancels
interest; furthermore, section four states that no U.S. citizen,
Naturalized citizen, or Legal Permanent Resident can question the
public debt by way of the fourteenth amendment. And sadly, this
section just admitted that a fourteenth amendment citizen is likened
to an emancipated slave, just like the Anglo-Saxon slaves under the
Brutish Moors of Great Britain, were freed by the Declaration of
Independence of 1776. The word emancipation comes from the Latin
word mancipatio, which means,
A certain ceremony or formal process anciently required to be
performed to perfect the sale or conveyance of res mancipi (land,
houses, slaves, horses, or cattle). The parties were present
(vendor and vendee) with five witnesses and a person called
"libripens," who held a balance or scales. A set form of words
repeated on either side, indicative of transfer of ownership, and
certain prescribed gestures performed, and the vendee then
struck the scales with a piece of copper, thereby symbolizing the
payment, or weighing out, of the stipulated price.
(Black's Law Dictionary – Second Edition)
To be emancipated is to transfer ownership of a property from
one owner to another. Slaves of the Atlantic Slave Trade were
transferred from involuntary servitude of penal colonies or debtor
prisons, an old form of slavery, into a new, taxed-based voluntary
servitude form of slavery controlled by the District of Columbia.
People today are not transferred from one owner to another; they
have voluntarily surrendered their God-given birthright as a national
but not a citizen of the United States over to the District of
Columbia's jurisdiction by way of the fourteenth amendment
contract. Section four is why not everyone can use House Joint
Resolution 192 to discharge the public debt. If one is a fourteenth
amendment citizen attempting to offset public liability, it "will not"
work unless a trust is used, as previously said. The last section of the
fourteenth amendment states,
The Congress shall have the power to enforce, by appropriate
legislation, the provisions of this article.
(1789 U.S. Constitution – 14th Amendment – Section five)
Section five gives the federal government the right to create any
law, which controls every fourteenth amendment citizen even though
every state's Constitution says, "No bill of attainder, ex post facto
law, or law impairing the obligations of contracts, shall ever be
passed." No law such as the entire fourteenth amendment shall
usurp the state constitutional law. However, it is an individual's
voluntary consent to surrender to the several fourteenth amendment
contracts via social security forms, driver's license or state I.D.
applications, insurance forms, passport applications, and voter
registration forms. All of the above applications allow Congress to
have the power to enforce any corporate code or statute over the
corporate juridical person. Who are the juridical persons exactly?
Unfortunately, the people of this beautiful land hold identification as
U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, State citizens, Residents, or Legal
Permanent Residents. It is the corporate name listed in their system
in ALL CAPITAL LETTERS, such as FIRST MIDDLE LAST Name.
This classification system is an ancient Roman law system known as
Capitis Diminutio Law, which diminishes a person's personality or
status. A person may lose his nature or legal capacity either in whole
or in part. There are three stages of losing a person's personality—the
first, Capitis diminutio minima consisting of losing someone's family
relations. The right to liberty is unaltered in this stage; there is only a
minimum loss of status. The second, Capitis diminutio media,
includes losing one's citizenship and their family name. In capitis
dimuntio minima, there is a medium loss of status. The third is
Capitis diminutio maxima, consisting of the deprivation of freedom,
citizenship, and family name. In this stage, a person's status is
changed from freedom to bondage; this is the highest status loss.
This is the status of all U.S. citizens, U.S. nationals, State citizens,
Residents, and Legal Permanent Residents, and to correct it, it must
be done on every level of government, beginning at the Department
of State with the Passport Application, followed by the Social
Security Administration, then the Department of Motor Vehicles.
Each inhabitant's status should be a "national but not a citizen of the
United States," which is naturally a creditor.
The fourteenth amendment's real motive comes from the words
of Senator Benjamin R. "Pitchfork Ben" Tillman. On March 23, 1900,
a speech was given before the U.S. Senate; Senator Benjamin R.
"Pitchfork Ben" Tillman of South Carolina defended his white
constituents' actions who had murdered several black citizens of his
home state. Tillman blamed the violence on the "hot-headedness" of
Southern blacks and the misguided efforts of Republicans during the
Reconstruction era after the Civil War to "put white necks under
black heels." He also defended violence against black men, claiming
that southern whites "will not submit to [the black man] gratifying
his lust on our wives and daughters without lynching him" – an
evocation of the deeply sexualized racist fantasies of many whites. He
quotes,
And he [Senator John C. Spooner, of Wisconsin] said we had
taken their rights away from them. He asked me was it right to
murder them in order to carry the elections. I never saw one
murdered. I never saw one shot at an election. It was the riots
before the elections precipitated by their own hot-headedness in
attempting to hold the government that brought on conflicts
between the races and caused the shotgun to be used. That is
what I meant by saying we used the shotgun.
I want to call the Senator's attention to one fact. He said that the
Republican party gave the negroes the ballot in order to protect
themselves against the indignities and wrongs that were
attempted to be heaped upon them by the enactment of the black
code. I say it was because the Republicans of that day, led by
Thad Stevens, wanted to put white necks under black heels and
to get revenge. There is a difference of opinion. You have your
opinion about it, and I have mine, and we can never agree.
I want to ask the Senator this proposition in arithmetic: In my
State, there were 135,000 negro voters, or negroes of voting age,
and some 90,000 or 95,000 white voters. General Canby set up a
carpetbag government there and turned our State over to this
majority. Now, I want to ask you, with a free vote and fair count,
how are you going to beat 135,000 by 95,000? How are you
going to do it? You had set us an impossible task. You had
handcuffed us and thrown away the key, and you propped your
carpetbag Negro government and bayonets. When it was
necessary to sustain the government, you held it up by the Army.
Mr. President, I have not the facts and figures here, but I want
the country to get the full view of the Southern side of this
question and the justification for anything we did. We were sorry
we had the necessity forced upon us, but we could not help it,
and as white men, we are not sorry for it, and we do not propose
to apologize for anything we have done in connection with it. We
took the government away from them in 1876. We did take it. If
no other Senator has come here previous to this time, who would
acknowledge it, more is the pity. We have had no fraud in our
elections in South Carolina in 1884. There has been no organized
Republican party in the State.
We did not disfranchise the Negroes until 1895. Then we had a
constitutional convention, which took the matter up calmly,
deliberately, and avowedly with the purpose of disfranchising as
many of them as we could under the "fourteenth and fifteenth"
amendments. We adopted the educational qualification as the
only means left to us, and the Negro is as contented and as
prosperous and as well protected in South Carolina today as in
any State of the Union south of the Potomac. He is not meddling
with politics, for he found that the more he meddled with them,
the worse off he got. As to his "rights", – I will not discuss them
now. We of the South have never recognized the right of the
Negro to govern white men, and we never will. We have never
believed him to be equal to the white man, and we will not
submit to his gratifying his lust on our wives and daughters
without lynching him. I would to God the last one of them was in
Africa and that none of them had ever been brought to our
shores. But I will not pursue the subject further.
I want to ask permission in this connection to print a speech
which I made in the constitutional convention of South Carolina
when it convened in 1895, in which the whole carpetbag regime
and the indignities and wrongs heaped upon our people, the
robberies which we suffered, and all the facts and figures there
brought out are incorporated, and let the whole of the facts go to
the country. I am not ashamed to have those facts go to the
country. They are our justification for the present situation in our
State. If I can get it, I should like that permission; otherwise, I
shall be forced to bring that speech here and read it when I can
put my hand on it. I will then leave this matter and let the dead
past bury its dead.
("Speech of Senator Benjamin R. Tillman, March 23, 1900,"
Congressional Record, 56th Congress, 1st Session, 3223-3224)
From the South Carolinian Senator, it is straightforward that the
government in South Carolina and all southern states were governed
by the Moors (swarthy and tawny men). They had voting rights and
outnumbered the white (Anglo-Saxon) voters, 135,000 to 95,000.
The Senator understood very well to make a difference; a
constitutional convention would need to disenfranchise the Moors,
meaning to deprive one's right to vote and strip them of their
nationality, into the jurisdiction of the fourteenth amendment.
Several important questions arise from reading the Senator's speech.
He mentioned, they took the government away from the Moors who
held Title of Nobility in 1876, and they did not disenfranchise the
Moors until 1895. The most obvious question is how is it possible,
Moors (black men) controlled all government until 1895, and why
would white men be concerned with depriving their right to vote if
they were enslaved and freed 30 years before abolishment in 1865?
This is one of the many pieces of the puzzle the federal government
did not expect the American people to uncover. Yet again, the federal
government is found guilty in a deceptive detour of reconstructive
history. It is undoubtedly impossible that in just 30 years,
uneducated “African slaves” who were brought to the thirteen
colonies could receive their freedom in 1865 and immediately run all
of the southern states as a republican government, to lose it in 1876.
The 90th Congress of 1967 would also agree about the Moors'
position, their government, and their power within the confederate
United States of America Corporation. Per the United States of
America Congressional Record, Volume 113 – Part 12 of June 12,
1967, to June 20, 1967,
III. PROPOSED AMENDMENT NEVER RATIFIED BY THREE-
FOURTHS OF THE STATES
1. Pretending the ineffectiveness of said resolution, as above,
fifteen (15) States out of the then thirty-seven (37) States of the
Union rejected the proposed fourteenth amendment between the
date of its submission to the States by the Secretary of State on
June 16, 1866, and March 24, 1868, thereby further nullifying
said resolution and making it impossible for its ratification by the
constitutionally required three-fourths of such States, as shown
by the rejections thereof by the Legislatures of the following
states:
Texas rejected the 14th Amendment on October 27, 1866.
Georgia rejected the 14th Amendment on November 9, 1866.
Florida rejected the 14th Amendment on December 6, 1866.
Alabama rejected the 14th Amendment on December 7, 1866.
North Carolina rejected the 14th Amendment on December 14,
1866.
Arkansas rejected the 14th Amendment on December 17, 1866.
South Carolina rejected the 14th Amendment on December 20,
1866.
Kentucky rejected the 14th Amendment on January 8, 1867.
Virginia rejected the 14th Amendment on January 9, 1867.
Louisiana rejected the 14th Amendment on February 6, 1867.
Delaware rejected the 14th Amendment on February 7, 1867.
Maryland rejected the 14th Amendment on March 23, 1867.
Mississippi rejected the 14th Amendment on January 31, 1867.
Ohio rejected the 14th Amendment on January 15, 1868.
New Jersey rejected the 14th Amendment on March 24, 1868.
(Congressional Record, Volume 113 – Part 12, June 13, 1967,
Page 15642)
There was no question that all of the Southern states which
rejected 
the 
14th 
amendment 
had 
legally 
constituted
governments, were fully recognized by the federal government,
and were functioning as member states of the Union at the time
of their rejection.
5. Faced with the positive failure of ratification of the 14th
amendment, both Houses of Congress passed over the veto of the
President three Acts known as Reconstruction Acts, between the
dates of March 2 and July 19, 1867, especially the third of said
Acts, 15 Stat. p. 14, etc., designed illegally to remove with
"Military force" the lawfully constituted State Legislatures of the
10 Southern States of Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Georgia, Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, Arkansas, Louisiana, and
Texas. In President Andrew Johnson's veto message on the
Reconstruction Act of March 2, 1867, he pointed out these
unconstitutionalities:
"In all these States, there are existing constitutions, framed in the
accustomed way by the people. Congress, however, declares that
these constitutions are not 'loyal and republican' and requires the
people to form them anew. What, then, in the opinion of
Congress, is necessary to make the Constitution of a State' loyal
and republican?' The original act answers the question: 'It is
universal negro suffrage, a question which the federal
Constitution leaves exclusively to the States themselves. All this
legislative machinery of martial law, military coercion, and
political disfranchisement is avowedly for that purpose and none
other. The existing constitutions of the ten States conform to the
acknowledged standards of loyalty and republicanism. Indeed, if
there are degrees in republican forms of government, their
constitutions are more republican now than when these States –
four of which were members of the original thirteen – first
became members of the Union."
(Congressional Record, Volume 113 – Part 12, June 13, 1967,
Page 15643)
From all of the above documented historic facts, it is inescapable
that the 14th amendment never was validly adopted as an article
of the Constitution, that it has no legal effect, and it should be
declared by the Courts to be unconstitutional, and therefore null,
void and of no effect.
(Congressional Record, Volume 113 – Part 12, June 13, 1967,
Page 15645)
The 
above 
undisputable 
record 
details 
the 
fourteenth
amendment's very reason to raise many issues in the United States
courts. Since the amendment was illegally ratified by military force,
subduing all legislative Moors for the sole purpose of ending their
republican government by way of universal negro suffrage or
political deprivation of their right to vote. All southern states were
against it, and therefore military coercion was necessary for the
ratification of the amendment. Federal and State programs have
utilized the fourteenth amendment's illegal ratification to entrap as
many Americans as possible into the District of Columbia's
jurisdiction. The Social Security Administration requires the
applicant to provide their race and ethnicity on questions six and
seven of the SS-5 form. Interesting enough, these two sections are
the only sections the Social Security Administration advises the
applicant that any information provided is "voluntary." Section six
asks the applicant to provide information on whether the applicant is
Hispanic or Latino voluntarily, and section seven asks for race
information. The applicant can select Native Hawaiian, Alaska
Native, Asian, American Indian, Black/African American, Other
Pacific Islander, and White. This is another deceptive tactic to
voluntarily have the applicant admit to being a "franchisee" of the
fourteenth amendment. There is only one race! The race of mankind
comprised of many nationalities upon the earth. Suppose the
question was asked, where is the nation of White, Latino, or Asian?
What would be the answer? That fact is it doesn't exist! There is only
Italian National, Californian National, Chinese National, Colombian
National, Sudanese National, Irish National, etc. Section five of the
application pertains to citizenship. The applicant can voluntarily
select United States citizen, Legal Alien Allowed To Work, Legal
Alien Not Allowed To Work, and Other. The obvious answer is
"Other." Per the instructions of the SS-5 form, the applicant must
provide a document from the U.S. Federal, State, or local
government agency to support selecting others, which will be
revealed.
Under The GPO Style Manual, 2016 – Section 5.23, Nationalities,
etc., the correct information that all Americans born in the 50
national states should provide on all applications requesting race or
nationality.
5.23. In designating the natives of the States, the following
forms will be used.
Alabamian
Alaskan
Arizonian
Arkansan
Californian
Coloradan
Delawarean
Floridian
Georgian
Hawaii resident
Hoosier
(Indiana)
Idahoan
Illinoisan
Iowan
Kansan
Kentuckian
Louisianian
Mainer
Marylander
Massachusettsan
Michiganian
Minnesotan
Mississippian
Missourian
Montanan
Nebraskan
Nevadan
New Hampshirite
New Jersyan
New Mexican
New Yorker
North Carolinian
North Dakotan
Ohioan
Oklahoman
Pennsylvanian
Rhode Islander
South Carolinian
South Dakotan
Tennessean
Texan
Utahn
Vermonter
Virginian
Washingtonian
Wisconsinite
Wyomingite
(GPO Style Manual, 2016 – Section 5.23, Nationalities, etc., page
95)
The above nationalities are the actual native tribes of the Moors
who inhabited the states under a republican government. The states
are their own countries that form a confederation, which formed the
United States of America in Congress Assembled. The definition of a
state is,
a nation or territory considered an organized political
community under one government or concerned with a country's
civil government.
(Oxford Dictionary)
The information is the same on all other government agency
applications. One's country is one's rightful nationality. However, if
one voluntarily elects to classify themselves as a franchise of the
fourteenth amendment by identifying as Black, White, Asian,
Hispanic, etc., it would allow a true national also to be classified as a
United States citizen, which is also on par of an enemy of the State
(District of Columbia) per Trading With The Enemy Act of 1917.
According to Title 50 – War and National Defense, Chapter 53 –
Trading With The Enemy,
The word "enemy," as used herein, shall be deemed to mean, for
such trading and of this chapter –
(a) Any individual, partnership, or other body of individuals, of
any nationality, resident within the territory (including that
occupied by the military and naval forces) of any nation with
which the United States is at war, or resident outside the United
States and doing business within such territory, and any
corporation incorporated within such territory of any nation with
which the United States is at war or incorporated within any
country other than the United States and doing business within
such territory
(b) The government of any nation with which the United States is
at war, or any political or municipal subdivision thereof, or any
officer, official, agent, or agency thereof.
(c) Such other individuals, or body or class of individuals, as may
be natives, citizens, or subjects of any nation with which the
United States is at war, other than citizens of the United States,
wherever resident or wherever doing business, as the President,
if he shall find the safety of the United States or the successful
prosecution of the war shall so require,
may, by proclamation, include within the term "enemy."
(Title 50 U.S. Code §4302 (a)(b)(c))
Part C just verified that by Proclamation by the President, if in
the best interest of the United States Corporation located in the
District of Columbia, the President may deem United States citizens
to be an enemy of the State (U.S.). Part C highlights citizens of the
United States with the phrase "other than a citizen of the United
States," which can be explained as,
You use "other than" after a negative statement to say that the
person, item, or thing that follows is the only exception to the
statement.
(Pursuant to Collins Dictionary)
Further evidence of the type of control the President has over
people classified as U.S. citizens on par with an enemy of the State
can be read in
Senate Report No. 93-549 of the 93rd Congress, 1st Session,
Titled: EMERGENCY POWERS STATUTES: Provisions Of Federal
Law Now In Effect Delegating To The Executive Extraordinary
Authority In Time Of National Emergency – November 19, 1973,
REPORT OF THE
SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON THE
TERMINATION OF THE
NATIONAL EMERGENCY
UNITED STATES SENATE,
FOREWORD
Since March 9, 1933, the United States has been in a state of
declared national emergency. There are now in effect four
presidentially proclaimed states of national emergency: In
addition to the national emergency declared by President
Roosevelt in 1933, there is also the national emergency
proclaimed by President Truman on December 16, 1950, during
the Korean conflict, and the states of national emergency
declared by President Nixon on March 23, 1970, and August 15,
1971.
These proclamations give force to 470 provisions of Federal law.
These 
hundreds 
of 
statutes 
delegate 
to 
the 
President
extraordinary powers, ordinarily exercised by the Congress,
which affect American citizens' lives in a host of all-
encompassing manners. This vast range of powers, taken
together, confer enough authority to rule the country without
reference to normal constitutional processes.
Under the powers delegated by these statutes, the President may:
seize property; organize and control the means of production;
seize commodities; assign military forces abroad; institute
martial 
law; 
seize 
and 
control 
all 
transportation 
and
communication; regulate the operation of private enterprise;
restrict travel; and, in a plethora of particular ways, control the
lives of all American citizens.
(Senate Report No. 93-549 of the 93rd Congress, 1st Session, &
Titled: EMERGENCY POWERS STATUTES, Nov. 19, 1973, page
three)
The President can control every aspect of the U.S. citizen, U.S.
national, Resident, State citizen, and Legal Permanent Resident or
Alien, and all forms of businesses registered under the Secretary of
State utilizing a license or permit. However, the Trading With The
Enemy Act does not bind nationals of their respective countries.
CHAPTER THREE
Existence Of Life
T he origin of the ALL CAPITAL LETTER fiction, the ens legis, that
the United States created began in London in 1666. The ens legis
is the same name as the natural physical person. It has a dual nature
or two sides of the same coin. Very similar to the two sides of a
standard checking account. A debit and credit side of the ledger. The
all capital letter JOHN DOE SMITH is the legal fiction (corporation)
debtor, and the all capital letter SMITH, JOHN DOE is the (natural
physical person) creditor. In today's commercial system, the debtor
side is utilized for every commercial transaction in public. The ens
legis began during the Black plague and great fires of London;
Parliament enacted an act behind closed doors, unknown to the
people, called the Cestui Que Vie Act 1666. The year is by no accident
being reminiscent of the Book of Revelations, Chapter 13 verse 16-18,
And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and
bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads:
And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or
the name of the beast, or the number of his name. Here is
wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of
the beast: for it is the number of a man, and his number is Six
hundred threescore and six.
(King James Version)
Six hundred threescore and six are the coded numbers the ruling
governments will ultimately use to identify their citizens for total
control. The act being debated was to subrogate men and women's
rights, meaning all men and women were declared dead, lost at sea
from the law of Admiralty Law. The State (London) took custody of
everyone and their property into a trust. The State became the
trustee/husband holding all titles to the people and property until a
living man returns to reclaim those titles; he can also claim damages.
The ALL CAPITAL LETTER legal fictitious name is owned by foreign
governments, on the same footing with the likes of owning a share in
the Stock Market, to own a percentage, but it is still a share of the
Stock. Its Latin name, Ens Legis, meaning,
A creature of the law, an artificial being, as contrasted with a
natural person. Applied to corporations, considered as deriving
their existence entirely from the law.
(Blacks Law Dictionary – Second Edition)
As of today, in the year 2021, all ens legis public debt is
calculated at a staggering $22 Trillion, to which twelve countries own
a share of the stock in the United States Corporation. Number one is
China, at $1.11 Trillion, holding 17.3%. Second is Japan at $1.06
Trillion, holding 16.5%. Third is Brazil at $307 Billion, holding 4.8%.
Fourth is the United Kingdom at $301 Billion at 4.7%. The fifth is
Ireland at $270 Billion, holding 4.2%. Sixth is Switzerland at $227
Billion, holding 3.5%. Seventh is Luxembourg at $224 Billion,
holding 3.5%. The Eighth is the Cayman Islands at $217 Billion,
holding 3.4%. Ninth is Hong Kong at $206 Billion, holding 3.2%. The
tenth is Belgium at $180 Billion, holding 2.8%, the eleventh is Saudi
Arabia at $177 Billion, holding 2.8%, and the twelfth position is
Taiwan at $171 Billion, holding 2.7% share of stock. All twelve
countries are dominions of Morocco (Mehomitan Nation). Their
stock shares are truthfully in the Sultan's hands, headquartered in
the finance capital of the world, New York City, New York.
London is an Independent City State controlling the world's
banking system. The Vatican is an Independent City State controlling
the world's religious structure and corporate soles. Washington D.C.
is also an Independent City State controlling the earth militarily, and
the Crown is an unincorporated association to be private. The temple
bar is in London, and every lawyer called to the "bar" swears
allegiance to the temple bar. By becoming the executor of the
fictitious name and collapsing the Cestui Que Vie trust, one can
reclaim their property and compensation for damages. It takes a
trust to collapse another trust in a court of equity or chancery. Until
this process is complete within the court, citizens will always need
representation when involved in legal matters because the fictitious
name is pronounced dead and lost at sea. Legal fictions are a
construct on paper, an estate in trust. When a legal person receives a
summons from a court, it is always addressed to the fictitious person
in the ALL CAPITAL LETTER sense as FIRST MIDDLE LAST or
LAST, FIRST MIDDLE; similar to tombstones in graveyards. Capital
letters signify death. A fictitious legal person is created when
someone informed the government that a new vessel has arrived
upon birth. Birth Certificates are issued to the government by the
"Doc.," just as ships are given Berth Certificates at the "Dock." It's all
about commerce! Newborns are delivered through their mother's
water, a birth canal, just like a ship. The ship is moved by the
"current," guided by the "river banks," and the "currency" moves the
lives of all persons through the "banks." Parents register the birth of
their babies, unknowingly entering them into the matrix of admiralty
law. In 1837, the Births, Deaths, and the Marriages Act were formed
in the UK, and the post of registrar general was established. His job
was to collect all the data from the churches, which held the records
of birth. Regis meaning from the Queen or Crown; all people are seen
to be in the custody of "The Crown." This allows people to function in
commerce and to accept the benefits provided by the State. A Cestui
Que Vie Trust, known later as a "Fide Commissary Trust" and also
referred to as "Secret Trust," is a fictional concept being a Temporary
Testamentary Trust, first established during the reign of Henry VII
of England through the Cestui Que Vie Act of 1540 and updated by
Charles II through the Cestui Que Vie Act of 1666. Wherein an Estate
may be affected for the benefit of one or more Persons presumed lost
or abandoned at "sea" and therefore assumed/presumed "dead" after
seven (7) years. Additional presumptions by which such a Trust was
added in later statutes to include bankrupts, minors, incompetents,
mortgages, and private companies. The original purpose and
function of a Cestui Que Vie Trust were to form a temporary Estate
for the benefit of another because some event, state of affairs, or
condition prevented them from claiming their status as living,
competent and present before a competent authority. Therefore, any
claims, history, statutes, or arguments that deviate in terms of a
Cestui Que Vie Trust's origin and function, as pronounced by these
canons, is false and automatically null and void. A Cestui Que Vie
Trust may only exist for seventy (70) years, being the traditional
accepted "life" expectancy of the estate.
In 1534, before the 1st Cestui Que Vie Act (1540), Henry VII
declared the first Cestui Que Vie type estate with an Act of
Supremacy, which formed the Crown Estate. Seventy (70) years later,
in 1604, James I of England modified the estate as the Union of
Crowns. The Crown was viewed as a company by the 18th Century.
However, at the beginning of the 19th Century, the company filed
bankruptcy in 1814; it became a private Crown Corporation
controlled by wealthy European banker families who obtained their
wealth through intermarrying with high-status Moors. Since 1581,
there has been a second series of Cestui Que Vie Estates concerning
the property of "persons" and rights which migrated to the United
States for administration, including:
i. In 1651, the Act for the Settlement of Ireland 1651-52
introduced the concept of "settlements," enemies of
the State and restrictions of movement in states of
"emergency,"
ii. In 1861, the Emergency Powers Act 1861, and
iii. In 1931, the Emergency Relief and Construction Act
1931-32, and
iv. In 2001, the Patriot Act 2001
Since 1591, there has been a third series of Cestui Que Vie Estates
concerning the property of "soul" and ecclesiastical rights which
migrated to the United States for administration, including:
i. In 1661, the Act of Settlement 1661-62, and
ii. In 1871, the District of Columbia Act 1871, and
iii. In 1941, the Lend-Lease Act 1941
All Berth Certificates, Birth Certificates, and Stock Certificates
are indeed Certificates of Title. All include Stock on banknote
numbers referring to a bond pending a matured date. Black's Law
Dictionary, Second Edition, defines Certificate of Title as,
This document certifies ownership of real property or a vehicle.
An authorized agency will capture a description of the property
and the liens on it on the issued certificate.
A Certificate of title is vastly different from the word entitled,
meaning,
To give a right or title to one who has a right to property in
ordination as a minister in ecclesiastical law.
(Black's Law Dictionary – Second Edition)
A lien is always displayed on a certificate of title and never to one
who possesses entitlement to a title. This is why U.S. citizens
continue to pay property taxes on houses and vehicles regardless of a
settled mortgage or vehicle sales contract. Until the property (effects)
is registered in trust with the local ruling government, taxes are due
annually. As long as a Certificate of Title for an automobile exists in
the ALL CAPITAL LETTER fictitious name, then the DMV remains
the true lienholder. The same applies to a real property having a
Satisfaction of Mortgage, with a Grant Deed not recorded in a trust,
which has a Settlor, Trustee, and Beneficiaries. Until the house is
registered in an Express Trust, property taxes are due annually. The
beginning process of reaching the Zero Percent tax bracket comes
only by claiming one's title to remove them from being lost at sea in
the law of admiralty. One must proceed with the authenticating
process of the "berth certificate" backed by the Cestui Que Vie Trust's
estate assets. The following steps will include a guide to claiming the
estate successfully. It begins by realizing that the birth certificate is
on par with a certificate of title to an automobile or grant deed or
deed of trust to real property. The purpose of authentication is given
in Title 28, Judiciary and Judicial Procedure, Chapter 115 –
Evidence; Documentary,
(b) Properly authenticated copies or transcripts of any books,
records, papers, or documents of any department or agency of
the United States shall be admitted in evidence equally with the
originals thereof.
(Title 28 US Code §1733(b))
Authentication of the birth certificate first begins with obtaining
a certified copy of the document from the county. If issued by the
Public Health Department and not the province of birth, one must
first 
authenticate 
the 
record 
obtaining 
a 
Certificate 
of
Exemplification. Once received, the birth certificate with the
exemplification must be mailed to the birth state's Secretary of State
office, requesting that the record becomes authenticated for
international travel to a non-Haque Convention country, such as
Thailand or Taiwan. A list of non-Haque countries is available
through an Internet search, and each Secretary of State office
provides this service with a fee, ranging from $10 to $25. The
Secretary of State may take up to 30 days to process. Depending on
the state, an apostille or certificate of authentication will come back
attached to the birth certificate. The next step is to finalize the
authentication by sending the returned birth certificate to the
Department 
of 
State 
with 
their 
DS-4194, 
Request 
For
Authentications Service form. The applicant should provide their
name and mailing address in section one. Leave section two blank
and select a Self-Addressed Stamped Envelope for the delivery
method in section three. Provide the non-Hague Country in section
four; the number of documents, which is one, and the document
type, which is the birth certificate. And finally, section five must
include the estimated cost, which is $8.00. Below is the Office of
Authentications mailing address,
U.S. Department of State
Office of Authentications
CA/PPT/S/TO/AUT
44132 Mercure Cir.
PO. Box 1206
Sterling, VA 20166-1206
Be sure to include a Self-Addressed Envelope inside the mailing
packet so that the Department of State can return the fully
authenticated birth certificate. Once authenticated, the document is
now on par with the original Certificate of Live Birth, which the
county will never give to the rightful owner. It is now security that
has been annexed from the United States, pending a claim of
ownership. The final step is to attach an Affidavit of Ownership to
the authenticated record. According to the Minnesota Court Rules,
The Registrar of Titles is authorized to receive for registration of
memorials upon any outstanding certificate of title an official
birth certificate pertaining to a registered owner named in said
certificate of title showing the date of birth of said registered
owner, providing there is attached to said birth certificate an
affidavit or an affiant who states that he/she is familiar with the
facts recited, stating that the party named in said birth certificate
is the same party as one of the owners named in said certificate
of title; and that thereafter the Registrar of Titles shall treat said
registered owner as having attained the age of the majority at a
date 18 years after the date of birth shown by said certificate.
(Minnesota Court Rules, Rule 220. Birth Certificate – Task
Force Comment-1991 Adoption, 4th Dist. R. 11.05)
The county Assessor-Clerk or Registrar-Clerk can receive a fully
authenticated certificate of title with an attached affidavit for the sole
purpose of establishing that one is no longer a minor. Until this
process occurs, the government will always see the U.S. citizen as a
minor not over 18, even if the citizen is of age. The lack of proof of
authentication with an affidavit proves to the government, along
with the U.S. census, driver's license, voter registration, SS-5 forms,
and U.S. Passport applications, precisely the number of inhabitants
of the age of 21 that can rightfully elect the whole number of
representatives for the choice of electors in their respective State.
The one named in the certificate is the one stating the claim as the
registered owner. The testimony should be titled "Affidavit of Claim
of Ownership of Certificate of Title," and the exact wording of
Minnesota Rule 220 should be quoted in the affidavit. Here is a
guide to follow:
AFFIDAVIT OF CLAIM
OF OWNERSHIP OF CERTIFICATE OF TITLE
I, Last Name, First Name Middle Name doing business as FIRST
NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME, said affiant/registered owner,
being duly sworn, declare and state that I am of full age and legally
competent and to have firsthand knowledge of the facts stated herein
and believe these facts to be true and correct to the best of my
knowledge and that the said affiant is the same party described in the
said Birth Certificate (Real Property);
1. The attached document is the authenticated true copy of
the original document of title of which I am the holder of
the Certificated Title whose name also appears on the face
of the instrument as FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST
NAME (Trust/Estate) by reference to the Official
Certificate of Live Birth (Title/Warehousing Receipt),
recorded and filed dated Month Day, Year [birth
registration date; NOT D.O.B.], in the Office of Clerk,
Registrar, Land of [Birth State], as the same appears to be
held for safekeeping by [Birth State] Vital Records; and
2. Affiant is aware, The Registrar of Titles is authorized to
receive 
for 
registration 
of 
memorials 
upon 
any
outstanding certificate of title an official birth certificate
pertaining to a registered owner named in said certificate
of title showing the date of birth of said registered owner,
providing there is attached to said birth certificate an
affidavit or an affiant who states that he/she is familiar
with the facts recited, stating that the party named in said
birth certificate is the same party as one of the owners
named in said certificate of title; and that thereafter the
Registrar of Titles shall treat said registered owner as
having attained the age of the majority at a date 18 years
after the date of birth shown by said certificate; and
3. Should any Constitution Officer, whether Executive,
Judicial, Legislative or deputy, dispute the above-foresaid
statements of facts, let it be known that Last Name, First
Name Middle Name, is aware that his/her breath of life,
dated [Birth Month Birth Day, Birth Year], on the nation
of [Birth State] State, the territory of [Birth County] and
not the United States (District of Columbia) and not The
State of [Birth State]. Therefore, Last Name, First Name
Middle Name, (the creditor) doing business as FIRST
NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME (the debtor) is a
fourteenth amendment citizen known as an ENS LEGIS,
created by the Certificate of Live Birth Contract & SS-5
form, which by law is unconstitutional per [affiant's birth
states, No expost facto law section. i.e., search the Bill of
Rights or Declaration of Rights] and affiant hereby
grants, conveys and or gift said Certificate of Title to the
Registered Owner known as [EXPRESS TRUST] Trust,
the Secured Party, further documented via a Nine Billion
Dollar 
Lien substantiated 
by 
an Equity 
Secured
Promissory Note and Pledge and Security Agreement,
listed in the organic public record on a non-Uniform
Commercial Code. Any rebuttal or dispute to the above-
foresaid statements of facts shall provide proof that such
contracts have NOT placed [Last Name, First Name
Middle Name] under "legal disability" (Lack of legal
capacity or qualification, such as that of a minor or
mentally impaired person, to enter into a binding
contract) per the Baby Act and per the 1877 Georgia
Constitution, Article I – Bill of Rights – Section IV –
Paragraph 1.
4. Take judicial notice; Affiant/Registered Owner is aware
that Full Faith and Credit shall be given in each State to
the public Acts, Records, and Judicial Proceedings of
every other State. And the Congress may by general Laws
prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records, and
Proceedings shall be proved and the Effect thereof; and
5. Affiant/Registered 
Owner 
is 
aware 
properly
authenticated copies or transcripts of any books, records,
papers, or documents of any department or agency of the
United States shall be admitted in evidence equally with
the originals thereof;
PROOF OF SERVICE
I, the undersigned, say: I am over the age of 18 years, and I am a
party to the action or proceeding. My business address is in care of
1234 Main Street, City, in the Republic of (State) of the united States
of America.
On [today's date], I served the foregoing document(s) described
as Affidavit of Claim of Ownership of Certificate of Title on all
interested parties, including but not limited to [Registrar-
Recorder/County-Clerk name], in this action by recording this day
the proper documents within the following office(s):
[Full Registrar-Recorder/County-Clerk address]
The documents were served by the following means (specify):
[X] BY MAIL – I deposited such envelope in the mail at [City,
State], with first-class postage thereon fully prepaid. I am readily
familiar with the business practice for the collection and processing
of correspondence for mailing. Under that practice, it is deposited
with the United States Postal Service on that same day at [City, State]
the ordinary course of business. I am aware that on the motion of the
party served, service is presumed invalid if postage cancellation date
or postage meter date is more than (1) day after the date of deposit
for mailing in an affidavit; and or
I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United
States of America [28 U.S. Code §1746(1)] that the foregoing is true
and correct.
Executed on [today's date] at [City, State]
Last Name, First Name Middle Name
The next page should be a valid state-approved Notary
Acknowledgment signed by the notary and affiant. It is essential that
the affiant always sign everything under the United States of America
and not under the United States alone. Title 28 U.S. Code 1746 (1)
states,
1) If executed without the United States: "I declare (or certify,
verify, or State) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
United States of America that the foregoing is true and
correct.
Executed on (date).
(Signature).
2) If executed within the United States, its territories,
possessions, or commonwealths: "I declare (or certify, verify,
or State) under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true
and correct.
Executed on (date).
(Signature).
The difference is clear; option one takes the person out of the
United States (federal district) jurisdiction. A critical portion of an
affidavit is its jurisdiction distinction. Now how exactly does one
register an authenticated birth certificate with an attached affidavit?
The Uniform Commercial Code gives detailed instructions regarding
proper registration of any certificate of title. The process consists of
perfecting one's security interest (titles and property) within the
county's real estate records section or the probate section of the
superior, circuit, or district court. The document used is a Financing
Statement, sometimes referred to as a U.C.C.1, but how the material
is validated before registration is the secret that leads to the Zero
Percent tax bracket. Every State has a U.C.C. department at the
Secretary of State level and also within each county municipality. The
Uniform Commercial Code is a standard source of laws established
by the Mehomitan Nation, operating commerce throughout the old
world. The U.C.C. code was created because it became increasingly
difficult for companies to transact business across interstates given
the various country laws. The Uniform Commercial Code is vital
since it helps companies in different states to negotiate with one
another by providing a standard legal and contractual foundation.
The laws have been fully adopted by most countries in the U.S.,
although there are some slight variations from country-to-country
(states), the U.C.C. code consists of nine separate articles. The U.C.C.
articles govern various types of transactions, including banking and
loans. All lenders are supposed to perfect their contracts with their
alleged borrowers using the financing statement, stating that the
lender is the creditor. The borrower is the debtor with a description
of the property as collateral exercised by a lien amount. Once the
debtor pays off the balance, the creditor would then remove the lien.
Article one pertains to general provisions, definitions, and
specific parameters of how the U.C.C. is applied. Article two relates
to the sale of goods, excluding real estate and service contracts.
Article three pertains to checks, drafts, and other negotiable
instruments. Article four pertains to bank deposits and collections,
and Article five details the regulations of letters of credit. Article six
pertains to bulk sales, auctions, and liquidations of assets. Article
seven provides rules on title documents, including warehouse
receipts, bulk sales, and bills of lading. Article eight pertains to
investment securities, and Article nine states the regulations of
secured transactions of personal property, agricultural liens,
promissory notes, consignments, and security interests. Regarding
perfecting security interests such as certificates of titles (birth
certificates, titles to automobiles, real property, or other personal
property), article nine states,
(a) [Security interest subject to other law.]
Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d), the filing of a
financing statement is not necessary or effective to perfect a
security interest in property subject to:
(1) a statute, regulation, or treaty of the United States whose
requirements for a security interest's obtaining priority over the
rights of a lien creditor with respect to the property pre-empt
Section 9-310(a);
(2) [list any statute covering automobiles, trailers, mobile homes,
boats, farm tractors, or the like, which provides for a security
interest to be indicated on a certificate of title as a condition or
result of perfection, and any non-Uniform Commercial Code
central filing statute];
(U.C.C. § 9-311 (a)(1)(2))
Article nine states that a financing statement is not necessary to
perfect a security interest or rightfully claim title unless a non-U.C.C.
is registered. The actual financing statement form has a small box
selected to lawfully request and adequately register the property in
the right jurisdiction. How to complete the financing statement as a
non-U.C.C. is quite simple but first requires creating a trust,
specifically an Express Trust. As mentioned before, trust is the only
real entity any government truly respects as a natural person because
it is a trust that further creates private corporations. Every other
entity is viewed as a dead fictitious corporation (corpse). To take part
in the Zero Percent tax bracket, a foreign trust must be the
foundation of any person and or business in the form of a holding
trust. If JOHN DOE works for Walmart, Inc., a foreign Express Trust
must be the foundation, holding all of JOHN DOE's assets, including
its income from Walmart. If JOHN DOE starts a mobile car wash
business named MOBILE CLEANING, LLC, a foreign Express Trust
must be the foundation and owner, holding all LLC business assets
as collateral. A foreign Express Trust must have a foreign trustee and
not a domestic trustee. To have a domestic trustee would ultimately
give the United States control over the trust at all times, which can
then be taxed and controlled. A foreign trustee means anyone who
does not have a United States green card, United States of America
birth certificate, Certificate of Citizenship or Naturalization, Social
Security Number, or ITIN. The trustee must have a foreign country
passport, identifying the I.R.S. or any United States court, the trust
jurisdiction. Without a foreign trustee, obtaining the goal of
operating in the Zero Percent tax bracket is impossible.
To complete the financing statement as a non-U.C.C. is as
follows:
(Note: Upper and Lower case spelling is necessary)
Box B: [your name]
U/D [Name of Trust] Express Trust
c/o [mailing address]
Chino Hills, California [00000-9998]
Section 1a: FIRST MIDDLE LAST NAME
Section 1c: ADDRESS OF BIRTH COUNTY COURTHOUSE
Section 2b: Last Name, First Name
Section 2c: Address of birth county courthouse
Section 3a: [foreign trustee name], trustee under Declaration of
[Name of Trust] Express Tr Dtd [date of trust created]
Section 3c: Foreign mailing address
Section 4: WITH TRUST – Constructive Notice that all of
debtor's [every derivative of the name] Interest(s) in certificated
securities (Note: include Department of State authentication
number, top of gold document), Authenticated Certificated Security
No. (note: birth certificate number) uncertificated securities (xxx-xx-
1234, last four of SSN) including licenses, permits, insurance
contracts, commodities, accounts public and private, all assets, all
personal property(ies) whether tangible and or intangible and real
property(ies), forever in fee simple is now owned and held in
covenant by the trustee for the Beneficial Owner herein known as
[Name of Trust] Express Trust d/b/a [Name of Trust].
Exhibit 1.23:
EQUITY SECURED PROMISSORY NOTE: For Valued Received,
Debtor (the "Borrower") promises to pay to the order of "Name of
Trust" Express Trust, herein known as, Lender (the "Secured Party")
in lawful money of the United States, the principal sum of Nine
Billion Dollars, secured by Last, First Middle Name for a loan
received by the Express Trust.
Exhibit 1.23.4:
PLEDGE AND SECURITY AGREEMENT: Entered into as of
Month Day, Year by and among FIRST MIDDLE LAST (the
"Borrower") and "Name of Trust" Express Trust (the "Creditor") for
itself as the Secured Party.
Section 5: Check box (Held in a Trust)
Section 6a: Check box (Public-Finance Transaction)
Section 6b: Check box (non-U.C.C. Filing)
Section 7: Leave blank
The final step in completing a financing statement is to draft the
actual financing detail. For the Express Trust to place a legitimate
lien on the ens legis (birth name), it must have a note followed by a
security agreement, to which the ens legis has received a loan from
the trust as its creditor and promises to re-pay the loan listed as a
borrower. In this case, the trust loaned Nine Billion Dollars to the
ens legis (FIRST MIDDLE LAST) secured by the labor and energy of
the real man (LAST, FIRST MIDDLE). Ever since birth, the County,
State, Courts, Banks, and the District of Columbia have created notes
against the ens legis without the real man's consent, estimating how
much money could be generated and circulated in the economy
backed by the real man's labor. The trust, as a creditor, must do the
same securing a Nine Billion Dollar note, allowing the trust to have
the first lien position of all property in the name FIRST MIDDLE
LAST. This is the same procedure when it comes to financing a house
with federal government-backed security. The deed of trust or
warranty deed (security agreement) is secured by the borrower's
promissory note or 1003 Mortgage Application form. If a borrower
undergoes a foreclosure, the bank must legally record the amount
loaned via a non-U.C.C. to substantiate their right to a first position
lien on the property seeking satisfaction of debt before any other
potential creditor in pursuit of equity. The non-U.C.C. with the
promissory 
note 
and 
security 
agreement, 
including 
the
Authenticated Birth Certificate with the attached Affidavit of Claim
of Ownership, must be sent to the applicant's birth county recorder's
office and the county recorder's office where the applicant is doing
business. Some states and counties are more complicated than
others because officials know the applicant's intentions and the
process's power. No owner wants to free their voluntary slaves from
the matrix. It should take anywhere from a month or two for the
financing statement to return. Section four pertains to all collateral
in the debtor's name, owned by the Express Trust. In trust law, the
goal is to control everything but own nothing! The language in
section four covers all accounts listed in the name of the social
security number, such as bank accounts, business accounts, DMV
applications, and the like. After the county records the non-U.C.C., it
must be recorded with the Secretary of State as a notice of lien. To do
this, the very same Financing Statement form is used. Almost all of
the information will remain the same except box 4 and box 6b. Box
4, the collateral, will only state the county's clerk of court recording
information such as file number, book number, deed number, dates,
and page count. Box 6b, non-U.C.C. filing will be left "unchecked."
This will ensure that the financing statement will file as a U.C.C. 1
notice of lien for all corporations to take equitable notice. In addition
to receiving a certified copy of the U.C.C. 1 and both non-U.C.C.'s
from the birth county and applicant's business county; filing a U.C.C.
11 Debtor Search with the Secretary of State will provide proof that
the Express Trust is the "only" creditor of the ens legis and its Nine
Billion Dollar lien hold's first position. All creditors thereafter must
obtain permission from the Express Trust. The debtor search
certificate can now supply the natural person (trust) the admissible
evidence to challenge alleged creditors such as lenders holding
mortgages or electronic liens held at the Department of Motor
Vehicles. Lenders of today, operating in public such as banks after
the United States bankruptcy of 1933, are indeed alleged creditors
because no corporation or its agents can lend money, credit, or in
other words, valuable consideration when it is currently bankrupt.
Banks can only act as a pass-through agent to deliver funds. When an
applicant provides its name and social security number or ITIN, the
alleged lender routes the application to one of the twelve Federal
Reserve Banks to wire the funds back to the pass-through agent in
exchange for bank credits. Each SSN/ITIN acts as a "checking
account number" while the number on the back of the social security
card acts as a "Federal Reserve bank routing number." A letter is
referenced on the back of each SSN/ITIN card describing the bank
origination, such as,
1st Bank of Boston, with the letter A;
2nd Bank of New York, with the letter B;
3rd Bank of Philadelphia, with the letter C;
4th Bank of Cleveland, with the letter D;
5th Bank of Richmond, with the letter E;
6th Bank of Atlanta, with the letter F;
7th Bank of Chicago, with the letter G;
8th Bank of St. Louis, with the letter H;
9th Bank of Minneapolis, with the letter I;
10th Bank of Kansas City, with the letter J;
11th Bank of Dallas, with the letter K;
12th Bank of San Francisco, with the letter L;
One enormous benefit of operating in a trust is that it allows the
creditor to collapse the fourteenth amendment trust. The
fourteenth amendment certificated and uncertificated securities
tied with the Securities and Exchange Commission can then be
released to the creditor. This process has been done repeatedly
with the wealthiest families worldwide, and the Uniform
Commercial Code gives its instruction.
(d) The interest of a debtor in a certificated security for which the
certificate is in the possession of a secured party, or an
uncertificated security registered in the name of a secured party,
or a security entitlement maintained in the name of a secured
party, may be reached
by a creditor by legal process upon the secured party.
(Uniform Commercial Code § 8-112(d). Creditor's Legal
Process)
The Express Trust is the creditor over the debtor (ALL CAPITAL
LETTER NAME) and takes ownership of everything the debtor could
never own and thus becomes the secured party. The birth certificate
is the certificated security, which is in the trust's possession after its
authentication process. The certificated security, backed by the
estate, is the foundation for the United States, creating the social
security benefits, which is the uncertificated security, now registered
in the secured party's name via the non-U.C.C. The applicant would
then petition the court to affix a new name onto the birth certificate,
particularly a name recognized with a high-status Title of Nobility
that the U.S. government is fully aware of. For example, the U.S.
citizen known as JOHN DOE SMITH of the JOHN EL EXPRESS
TRUST would seek a name change to JOHN DOE EL. John Doe El is
the name that does not have a social security number or was never
registered as a debtor in the United States private corporation trust,
which substantiates its commercial status as a creditor and not a
debtor slave. The title of El belongs to the lineage of the Moors (i.e.,
Black or African American), and its inheritance is held in trust just
waiting to be claimed. The same applies to English Noble Titles such
as Baron, Duke, Marquess, Viscount, or Senor (Lord). The Express
Trust could then enter a court of equity and file a suit against the
county where the former JOHN DOE SMITH fictitious ens legis was
created to collapse the fourteenth amendment trust, terminating all
intermediaries fiduciaries managing the trust fund. The Express
Trust's trustee would then receive all of the monetary securities in
the debtor's name on behalf of the beneficiaries. In addition to the
name change, the true nationality/race of the Moor or foreign nation
would be affixed to the birth certificate via Vital Statistics, allowing
the trustee to petition the court to release all descendible funds in the
name of the debtor's forefathers and foremothers. A certified
genealogical blood record would be necessary as admissible evidence
to the court. Wealthy families utilize the Express Trust and the tools
provided in probate court, referred to as the king's court, to fund
their trust and enter generational wealth.
B
CHAPTER FOUR
Persons Not Required To File
y now, it may be clear who is required to file a 1040, 1041, or 1065
Tax Return Statement and who is not required to file. If not, then
the best source is the Internal Revenue Manual (I.R.M.), which is
also codified in Title 26 - Internal Revenue Code. Let their words
reveal how wealthy families have obtained prosperity for over a
century. An interesting fact about taxes is the actual definition of the
word in Title 31, "Money and Finance."
(d)(1) The Secretary of the Treasury may accept, hold,
administer, and use gifts and bequests of property, both real and
personal, for the purpose of aiding or facilitating the work of the
Departments of the Treasury. Gifts and bequests of money and
the proceeds from sales of other property received as gifts or
bequests shall be deposited in the Treasury in a separate fund
and shall be disbursed on order of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Property accepted under this paragraph, and the proceeds
thereof shall be used as nearly as possible in accordance with the
terms of the gift or bequest.
(2) For purposes of the Federal income, estate, and gift taxes,
property accepted under paragraph (1) shall be considered as a
gift or bequest to or for the use of the United States.
(Title 31 U.S. Code § 321. General authority of the Secretary(d)
(1)(2))
Taxes are indeed voluntary! They are not needed to run the
government, and the services Americans use on a day-to-day basis.
All taxes acquired from real property meaning real estate, and all
taxes acquired from personal property, whether tangible or
intangible, meaning social security numbers, stocks, shares, etc., are
considered "gifts" to Washington D.C. There is no need to transfer all
hard-earned wealth to the United States corporation when its only
motive is inflating the dollar and controlling as many alleged citizens
as possible through deceptive voluntary contracts.
Before diving into the I.R.M., understanding how the fraud of
being classified as a domestic U.S. citizen and not being recognized
as a countryside national is paramount. Each state is its own country;
therefore, being born in Oregon State makes the newborn an
Oregonian National per the 2016 GPO Style Manual, page 95.
Parents have unknowingly provided evidence that their offspring is a
federal district franchise such as Black/African American, White,
Asian, Hispanic, American Indian, Latino, Alaskan, or Pacific
Islander, including evidence stating that their offspring were born in
a ZIP Code; the District of Columbia deems the child lost at sea,
abandoned and state-less.
This unconstitutional act by the District of Columbia is an act of
paper genocide, which is described as,
The deliberate and systematic destruction of Native American
Indian culture, language, and identity as a unique racial group by
way of the illegal and oppressive race reclassification imposed on
Native American Indians or "Blood Indians" to the Non-Indian
races of Black/African American, White, or Latino/Hispanic.
With the stroke of a pen or the click of a mouse, Native American
Indian ancestry can be suppressed on government records. *The
United States Supreme Court struck down Walter Plecker's
Racial Integrity Act in 1967 within Loving v. Virginia.
(Urban Dictionary)
The "Affidavit of Claim of Ownership of Certificate of Title"
template mentions in section four, the Full Faith and Credit Clause
from the United States Constitution, Article IV, Section I. It means
that any law or record in one state shall be applied in any other
country/state. Observe the 1877 Georgia Constitution, Article I, Bill
of Rights, Section IV, Paragraph I, which is law in every other state,
Laws of a general nature shall have a uniform operation
throughout the State, and no special law shall be enacted in any
case for which provision has been made by an existing general
law. No general law affecting private rights shall be varied in any
particular case, by special legislation, except with the free
consent, in writing of all persons to be affected thereby; and no
person under legal disability to contract is capable of such
consent.
The latter of this law explains that each person must consent to
any contract they have willfully agreed to, and no person under legal
disability can consent to such an agreement. The definition of legal
disability is defined,
Lack of legal capacity or qualification, such as that of a minor or
a mentally impaired person, to enter into a binding contract
(Business Dictionary)
In this case, all Americans are not and have never been U.S.
citizens. The District of Columbia is committing fraud by contracting
with infants who are incompetent of entering into a legally binding
contract. Which contract? The Certificate of Live Birth, to be exact.
By issuing a birth certificate, an American can voluntarily apply for a
social security number, register to vote, apply for a driver's license,
apply for a U.S.A. passport, or life insurance. However, the mother
and father or legal guardian submitted the information on behalf of
the infant to the county or province registrar to create a contract. It is
against the 1877 Georgia Constitution and every other constitution.
Its law holds uniformity in all other states as well. Everyone is a
national because the United States is located in that ten square mile
radius known as Washington D.C., permitted by the Organic Act of
1871. Therefore all nationals are foreign to the United States. All
Americans are lawfully placed in the category of a plea of infancy,
known as the Baby Act.
Plea of infancy, interposed for the purpose of defeating an action
upon a contract made while the person was a minor, is vulgarly
called "pleading the baby act." By extension, the term is applied
to a plea of the statute of limitations.
(Baby Act, Blacks Law Dictionary - Second Edition)
The Baby Act and Legal Disability are major lawful components
to being recognized as nationals by birthright. Wouldn't it mean that
all contracts in the ALL CAPITAL LETTER, FIRST MIDDLE LAST
NAME or LAST, FIRST MIDDLE NAME fictitious name considered
invalid contracts? Contracts require one to be a U.S. citizen to be
approved for financings, such as mortgages, auto loans, student
loans, and more. What would happen to these obligations if a
national claimed their estate, removing the estate from the
fourteenth amendment trust into an Express Trust, and the Express
Trust sued the alleged lien holder based upon an invalid agreement?
Would all false financial obligations be discharged?
The true location and meaning of the United States are the ten
square miles of Washington D.C. Most American nationals, born
outside of that radius, are foreign to the domestic United States
concerning their country. Discovering how the Internal Revenue
Manual determines who is required to file income tax returns is not
simple. Regardless of the entity type as an individual or a business,
first, analyze how an employee or a business owner can set up a
foundation to enter the Zero Percent tax bracket. Section
21.7.13.3.2.7, subsection 2, states,
Telephone calls from foreign entities requesting an EIN
(Employer Identification Number) are assigned EIN Prefix 98 and
are only worked by Cincinnati and Ogden International Units. If a
call is received in any other location, provide the caller with the:
EIN International phone number (267) 941-1099 (not a
toll-free number) Hours of operation 6:00am to 11:00pm.
Eastern time Monday through Friday
EIN International fax number (855) 215-1627 if faxing
from within the U.S. and
EIN International fax number (304) 707-9471 if faxing
from outside the U.S.
Anyone may use any of these options to set up their foundation;
however, calling to speak to an agent is the fastest method. So, what
exactly is the foundation that needs to be acquired to achieve a tax-
free lifestyle? Well, according to the Internal Revenue Code § 7701
Definitions,
The term "domestic," when applied to a Business Entity, means
created or organized in the United States or under the law of the
United States or of any State unless, in the case of a partnership,
the Secretary provides otherwise by regulations. A Business
Entity created or organized both in the United States and in a
foreign jurisdiction is a domestic entity.
The term "foreign," when applied to a corporation or
partnership, means a corporation or partnership which is not
domestic.
The term "domestic trust" means a trust in which a court within
the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the
administration of the trust, and one or more U.S. persons have
the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
The term "foreign trust" means any trust other than a domestic
trust described above.
(I.R.S. Manual 21.7.13)
The term "domestic estate" means any estate other than a
"foreign" estate.
(I.R.S. Manual 21.7.13)
The term "foreign estate" means an estate the income of which,
from sources outside the United States which is not effectively
connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the
U.S., is not included in gross income under subtitle A of Title 26
of the U.S. Code.
Notice the I.R.S. is very descriptive with terms describing
domestic, but not so much with foreign terms other than it is the
opposite of domestic. As nationals, the people of the united States of
America are foreign to the domestic U.S.; therefore, it is imperative
to set up a foreign trust as the foundation to hold all assets. The
golden rule of trust is to own nothing but control everything cannot
be stressed enough. This means that the foreign trust will own all of
the earnings from employment or the earnings generated from
business practices. Regarding the earnings from an employer, a
social security number, or ITIN (uncertificated security), was given
to the employer via I.R.S. Form W-4 to begin working as an
employee. To remove the obligation of federal and state taxes from
each employee's paycheck, first, convert the uncertificated security
(SSN/ITIN) from a domestic estate to a foreign estate, as mentioned
above. The foreign estate will be housed under the foreign trust for
total tax exemption through the trustee alerting the employer to no
longer provide payments in the domestic estate name but now in the
foreign trust. All foreign trusts seeking lawful tax exemption use the
I.R.S. Form SS-4 to receive an EIN assignment 98 Prefix number
from the I.R.S., and it must be done over the telephone. If the foreign
trust receives any number other than a 98 Prefix, the process must
be completed repeatedly until it is received. Here are all of the
reasons the I.R.S. will assign an EIN 98 Prefix number by the
Cincinnati or Ogden Campus:
A corporation or limited liability company indicates on Line 9b
that it was incorporated in a foreign country.
There is language anywhere on Form SS-4 suggesting foreign
status, such as:
Tax treaty
Foreign entity
Treas. Reg. §1.1441-1(e)(4)(viii)
897(I) Election
Form 1120-F
Form 5471
Form W-8IMY
Form W-8EXP
Form W-8BEN
An entity checks the box on Line 10 for "Compliance with I.R.S.
withholding regulations."
(I.R.S. Manual 21.7.13)
The I.R.S. Form SS-4 must have the above information detailed
on the form given to the I.R.S. agent over the telephone to receive
their EIN 98 Prefix foreign number to own everything in a trust held
by the trustee successfully. An employee trading hours for dollars
becomes liable to pay all forms of taxes, of course, from using the
uncertificated security as a domestic estate and failing to provide the
employer with consent that the employee agrees for taxes to be
withheld from their earnings. The I.R.S. Form W-4 is simply not a
complete, valid consent. The law requires that all employees furnish
a separate "statement" in writing to be attached to the W-4. How
many employers follow this imperative rule? Most would agree not
many, and therefore, many employers face a legitimate lawsuit for
not providing the information upfront with the new hire employee.
This is another deceptive tactic that the United States uses to entrap
"nationals" into voluntary servitude. Many employers would rather
not hire the new employee when presented with such a statement out
of fear of dealing with the I.R.S. If the statement is addressed to the
employer from the trustee's attention of a foreign trust, then the
responsibility of reporting tax exemption would be in the hands of
the I.R.S. and not the employer. The foreign trust is the only entity
the I.R.S. respects because it is viewed as a natural person and
outside of their jurisdiction. Title 26 CFR § 31.3402(p)-1 - Voluntary
withholding agreements, states,
(a) Employer-employee agreement. An employee and his
employer may enter into an agreement under section 3402(p)(3)
(A) to provide for the withholding of income tax upon payments
of amounts described in paragraph (b)(1) of § 31.3401(a)-3, made
after December 31, 1970. An agreement may be entered into
under this section only with respect to amounts which are
includible in the gross income of the employee under section 61,
and must be applicable to all such amounts paid by the employer
to the employee. The amount to be withheld pursuant to an
agreement under section 3402(p)(3)(A) shall be determined
under the rules contained in section 3402 and the regulations
thereunder. See § 31.3405(c)-1, Q&A-3 concerning agreements to
have more than 20-percent Federal income tax withheld from
eligible rollover distributions within the meaning of section 402.
(b) Form and duration of the employer-employee agreement. (1)
(i) Except as provided in subdivision (ii) of this subparagraph, an
employee who desires to enter into an agreement under section
3402(p)(3)(A) shall furnish his employer with Form W-4
(withholding exemption certificate) executed in accordance with
the provisions of section 3402(f) and the regulations thereunder.
The furnishing of such Form W-4 shall constitute a request for
withholding. (ii) In the case of an employee who desires to enter
into an agreement under section 3402(p)(3)(A) with his
employer, if the employee performs services (in addition to those
to be the subject of the agreement), the remuneration for which
is subject to mandatory income tax withholding by such
employer, or if the employee wishes to specify that the agreement
terminate on a specific date, the employee shall furnish the
employer with a request for withholding which shall be signed by
the employee, and shall contain -
(a) The name, address, and social security number of the
employee making the request,
(b) The name and address of the employer,
(c) A statement that the employee desires withholding of Federal
income tax, and applicable of qualified State individual income
tax (see paragraph (d)(3)(i) of § 301.6361-1 of this chapter
(Regulations on Procedures and Administration)), and
(d) If the employee desires that the agreement terminate on a
specific date, the date of termination of the agreement.
If accepted by the employer as provided in subdivision (iii) of
this subparagraph, the request shall be attached to, and constitute
part of, the employee's Form W-4. An employee who furnishes his
employer a request for withholding under this subdivision shall also
furnish such employer with Form W-4 if such employee does not
already have a Form W-4 in effect with such employer. Instead of
providing an employer a statement attached to Form W-4 as a
domestic estate; a foreign estate should be provided on behalf of the
foreign trust via an Assignment Notice to the employer human
resources department. All employees who do not provide a statement
as required in section c, as a foreign estate, qualifies their wages as
"effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business with
the United States" and are therefore taxed at the highest tax bracket.
To convert a domestic estate (SSN or ITIN) into a foreign estate, a 98
Prefix foreign tax identification number must first be acquired using
the IRS Form SS-4 and calling the (267) 941-1099 number.
Before completing Form SS-4, understanding the rules to obtain
the 98 number is very important. Section 21.7.13.3.2.7.1 (5-16-2018),
titled Foreign Entities/ Persons Not Required to File a U.S. Tax
Return, states,
(1) Foreign corporations and individual not engaged in a trade or
business in the United States (and foreign partnerships, foreign
trusts, and foreign estates that do not have gross income that is
(or is treated as) effectively connected with the conduct of a trade
or business) are not required to obtain an EIN unless they
otherwise have United States source income on which the tax
liability was not fully satisfied by the withholding of tax at the
source. However, a foreign entity may need an EIN to comply
with I.R.S. withholding regulations or to claim tax treaty
benefits. In this case, the taxpayer should complete Form SS-4 as
shown below:
a. Line 7b-provide an ITIN or SSN if appropriate, otherwise write
"N/A."
b. Line 10-check the Compliance with I.R.S. withholding
regulations box, or in the case of claiming treaty benefits, check
the Other box and specify on the line For Tax Treaty Purposes
Only, Treasury. Reg. 1.1441-1 (e) (4) (vii).
c. Lines 11-17 enter "N/A."
(2) Establish these entities on the "0" file.
(3) If the foreign entities/individuals above receive a letter from
the I.R.S. soliciting the filing of a U.S. tax return, the foreign
entity/individual should respond to the letter immediately by
stating that it has no requirement to file any U.S. tax returns.
Failure to respond to the I.R.S. letter may result in a procedural
assessment of tax by the I.R.S. against the foreign entity.
(4) If the application is received over the phone, ask the caller's
name, SSN/ITIN, address, date of birth, and position with the
entity If the caller does not have an SSN/ITIN (and therefore
cannot be authenticated using CC INOLE), the new EIN will still
be disclosed to the caller, as long as their position with the entity
authorizes them to receive it. See I.R.M. 11.3.2.4, Persons Who
May Have Access to Returns and Return Information Pursuant
to IRC 6103(e).
The Internal Revenue Manual simply explained that those
considered foreign to the United States could obtain their foreign tax
identification number to remove all tax liability. Once the 98 number
is obtained, the I.R.S. will enter the foreign trust EIN on the "0" file
list as an entity that never has to file, not one tax return. Usually, the
I.R.S. sends a letter, known as the CP-575, detailing all information
given about the entity, such as its name, address, EIN, date of
establishment, responsible party, and request tax return by a specific
date. The trustee of the trust must respond, stating that the entity
has no requirement to do so under Title 26 U.S. Code § 7701(30) and
Title 26 U.S. Code § 7701 (31)(B). Before filling out Form SS-4, the
foreign national must determine three important key factors.
First, the trust's name should be entirely different from the name
on the birth certificate or social security card. Depending on the
nationality, research titles of nobility are given to families of
notoriety within the applicant's nation.
Second, a domestic address as the trust mailing address and a
foreign address from a foreign country as the principal place of
business where the trust was established. Although the republic of
the united States of America is foreign to the United States, a.k.a the
District of Columbia; a foreign address from a foreign country is
required because the I.R.S. agent on the telephone are not trained to
understand the difference between a republic address and a domestic
federal address by way of the ZIP code. This is not an illegal action; a
trust can decide when and where it began and what nation it is
established under. It is a standard practice among corporations to
have a principal address offshore, yet doing business within North
America. For example, Experian plc, corporate headquarters is
addressed Newenham House, Northern Cross, Malahide Road,
Dublin 17 Ireland, but Experian is doing business in Canada and
Costa Mesa, California.
The third key factor, and most important, is a foreign trustee.
The trust will need a person who has never had a U.S.A. birth
certificate, derived from one of the Internal Revenue District States,
a social security card, a green card (legal permanent resident card),
or any citizenship document issued by the U.S. Citizenship and
Immigration Services. The identity and nationality of a trustee
determine the overall jurisdiction the United States has over a trust.
(Note: If the applicant's primary language is American English, it is
wise to select a foreign address in Amsterdam, Netherlands, such as
a hotel or available office space or any country where inhabitants
have a native tongue similar to American English. If the applicant is
indeed from another country, then, by all means, use the familiar
accent of the native foreign country to validate the foreign address
further.)
For this example, in completing Form SS-4, Christopher
Alexander Wellington is an American National born in the land of
California, the territory of Los Angeles. He is employed with Target,
Inc., with plans of starting a small business in California. By birth,
Mr. Wellington is foreign to the United States' jurisdiction as a
Native Californian National seeking to enter the Zero Percent tax
bracket. The name of the foreign trust is Heinz Wolfgang Express
Trust, whose trustee is Ahmed-El Ben (a New South Wales
Australian) with an established foreign address as Dam 9, 1012 JS
Amsterdam, Netherlands, and domestic address as 9999 Peppertree
Blvd, Ste Q03, Los Angeles, CA 11119. Mr. Wellington will use a
private mailbox from iPostal1 and not his residence. iPostal1.com is
an excellent option to receive mail and no longer receiving personal
mail where he lays his head. Remember U.C.C. 9-307; a debtor is
located at their primary place of residence belonging to the District
of Columbia.
The below SS-4 (Revised December 2019) instructions are as
follows:
Section 1. Legal name of entity (or individual) for whom the EIN
is being requested: HEINZ WOLFGANG EXPRESS TRUST
Section 2. Trade name of business (if different from name on line
1): N/A
Section 3. Executor, administrator, trustee, "care of" name: care
of Ahmed-El Ben, trustee
Section 4a. Mailing address: 9999 Peppertree Blvd. Suite Q03
Section 4b. City, state, and ZIP code: Los Angeles, CA 11119
Section 5a. Street address: Dam 9
Section 5b. City, state, and ZIP code: 1012, JS Amsterdam,
Netherlands
Section 6. County and state where the principal business is
located: Los Angeles County, California
Section 7a. Name of responsible party: Ahmed-El Ben
Section 7b. SSN, ITIN, or EIN: "N/A" (Note: The foreign trustee
was never issued a social security number. Suppose the applicant is
still working on finding a foreign trustee and want to obtain their 98
number. In that case, the applicant can use themselves as the initial
trustee in section 3 and the responsible party in section 7a. The
applicant (CHRISTOPHER WELLINGTON) should use a new First
and Last Name such as Kristopher Oliver or Kristopher El, and state
they were never given a social security number. – This was a
reference to the two-fold message by Yahusha when he stated in
John 3:3, "Yahusha answered and said to him, Most assuredly, I say
to you unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God."–
To be born again is to take on a new name that does not belong to the
State and also to be made new, walking in newness of life because of
what Yahusha was going to do and as of today, has already done.
Isn't it fascinating that absolutely no one in the Bible has a last
name? What new bibles have done was merge titles of nobility such
as Dani' El, Gabri' El, Micha' El, Isra'El, Melchi'zedek, or Mary of
Magdalene.)
Section 8a. Is this application for a limited liability company
(LLC) (or a foreign equivalent)?: No
Section 8b. Skip
Section 8c. Skip
Section 9a. Type of entity: Trust (TIN of grantor) - Express Trust
Section 9b. Skip
Section 10. Reason for applying: Other (specify) W-8BEN
PURPOSES ONLY
Section 11. Date business started or acquired (month, day, year):
Select a date three months before the current day
Section 12. Closing month of accounting year: December 2021
(Note: Always the last month of the year and the current year-end of
the application)
Section 13. Skip
Section 14. Skip
Section 15. Skip
Section 16. Check one box that best describes the principal
activity of your business: Other (specify) - Unincorporated Church
Association. (Note: Why an unincorporated church association?
Trust law is derived from biblical treaties, and the government
follows the rules and regulations of the Bible. A trust requires a
minimum of two persons, a Settlor, and a Trustee, to fulfill three
positions: a settlor, a trustee, and a beneficiary. Just as the Bible
states, God is a triune God, the father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit;
man comprises three parts. Flesh, mind, or soul, and spirit. In like
manner, the government has a minimum of two persons, the
President and the Vice President, with three branches as legislative,
executive, and judicial. The Bible states that man is the church, and
wherever a man goes or whatever activity a man is engaged in, God
will be in the midst. Every man is a church, and therefore every man
is an unincorporated church association, who occasionally enters
into partnerships. The unincorporated church association is
automatically tax-exempt as described under Title 26 U.S. Code §
508(c)(1)(A) and completely distinguishable from a religious
organization Title 26 U.S. Code § 501(c)(3), which can be taxed if the
religious organization "does not" adhere to the rules of subsection
501(c)(3). The Bible is surprisingly one big trust book. The church is
tax-exempt, avoiding usury, also known as interest, stated
throughout the Old Testament, which the government has codified as
law under Public Law 97-280 - OCT. 4, 1982, 96 STAT. 1211).
Continuing with the foreign 98 application,
Section 17. Skip
Section 18. Has the applicant entity shown on line 1 ever applied
for an received an EIN?: No
That's it! Congratulations! If the applicant provided the above
information to the I.R.S. agent over the telephone, the applicant
should have a 98 Prefix tax identification number. As previously
mentioned, the I.R.S. may send the applicant its CP-575 letter
confirming all of the provided information and may state the
following,
"Based on the information received from you or your
representative, you must file the following form(s) 1041, 1040, 1065
by the date(s) shown."
Regardless of receiving this letter, the trustee should send some
type of statement to the I.R.S. to altogether confirm its lack of tax
return liability. The statement provided below using the example
used in the SS-4 instructions will guarantee a confirmed statement
from the I.R.S. that the trust is on the "0" file list. (Note: The
following abbreviations are defined, U/D as under-declaration, ttee
as trustee, and TR as trust.)
Month/Day/Year
Ahmed-El Ben, ttee or Kristopher Olive or El, ttee
U/D HEINZ WOLFGANG EXPRESS TR
care of: 9999 Peppertree Blvd, Suite Q03
Los Angeles, California Republic united States of America.
ATTN: DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE
CINCINNATI, OH 45999-0023
RE: I.R.S. Form SS-4 Application, CP-575; EIN 98-#######
I, Ahmed-El Ben, trustee of the HEINZ WOLFGANG EXPRESS
TRUST on behalf of the trust beneficiaries, wish to provide the
Internal Revenue Service with additional information regarding the
trust. The trust is aware that the Internal Revenue Service may
request an entity's I.R.S. Form(s) 1040, 1041, or 1065 by a
determined date.
T A K E J U D I C I A L N O T I C E, that the HEINZ WOLFGANG
EXPRESS TRUST is a "Foreign Trust" established in Amsterdam and
was assigned EIN 98-####### for tax classification purposes. The
foreign entity and its representatives have no requirement to file any
U.S. Tax Return, according to I.R.M. 27.7.13.3.2.7.1 (05-16-2018).
The foreign trust and its representatives are not United States
Persons per Title 26 U.S. Code § 7701 (30) and not a domestic trust
under the supervision and jurisdiction of any court within the United
States (District of Columbia) per Title 26 U.S. Code § 7701 (31)(B).
Please be advised that submitting an EIN application is for W-
8BEN purposes only, as stated on the attached I.R.S. Form SS-4.
Should you have any questions or concerns, you may write to our
attention via the address listed above.
Attached: Internal Revenue Service Form SS-4
Thank you for your prompt attention to this matter!
Signed:
Ahmed-El Ben, ttee or Kristopher Olive or El, ttee
Office: (999) 123-4567
It is best to include a copy of the exact information on the I.R.S.
Form SS-4, given to the I.R.S. agent over the telephone. The I.R.S.
may take up to 6 months to process your statement, but once the
I.R.S. has accepted your letter, a correspondence from them should
state,
Dear Taxpayer:
Thank you for the inquiry dated Month Day, Year.
Our records show you are no longer required to file such forms.
The next step is to proceed with a two-step process in converting
the employees' public insurance bond (i.e., SSN/ITIN) into a foreign
estate. It will first be classified as a domestic estate, which will
further be converted into a foreign estate. To accomplish this, the
same SS-4 is needed except this time; it will be done online by
searching "apply for EIN online" and select www.irs.gov, "Apply for
an Employer Identification Number (EIN) Online." The application
can only be completed Monday to Friday during the operating hours
of 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. The only thing required
to complete this process is the applicants/employee public insurance
bond (SSN/ITIN), uncertificated security. The process is as follows,
After selecting "Begin Application Now," the first set of options
given is the entity selection. The correct entity to choose is the
"estate." People are led to believe the estate is only chosen upon a
loved one's death in an attempt to settle their financial affairs.
According to the I.R.S., there are two kinds of taxes owed by an
estate, first, on the transfer of assets from the decedent to their
beneficiaries and heirs (the estate tax), and second, on income
generated by assets of the decedent's estate (the income tax). When
someone passes away, their assets become the property of their
estate. All income generated by the assets is part of the estate and
may cause the filing of an estate tax return. The decedent's estate
may generate assets including but not limited to savings accounts,
CDs, stocks, bonds, mutual funds, and rental property. I.R.S. Form
1041, U.S. Income Tax Return for Estates and Trusts, is required if
the estate generates more than $600 in annual gross income.
Interestingly, the estate number can be used for much more than
a death benefit. It is a 9-digit number like any SSN, ITIN, or business
EIN, also known as a credit profile number. It can be used to access
high-limits of corporate credit. This is a necessary skill to learn as the
social security number and ITIN are surrendered and abandoned
going forward, except if the applicant wishes to finance real estate
and obtain a mortgage to convey the property to a trust. It should be
noted that an inactive SSN becomes on par with a dissolved
corporation after three years. To continue to use the public insurance
bond (SSN/ITIN) in the form of credit cards, cell phone contracts,
auto loans, all insurance accounts, or bank accounts, knowing that
nationals are not U.S. citizens would be counter-productive,
accepting the United States benefits and privileges. Therefore, it is
recommended to use the foreign estate credit profile as a
replacement to the SSN/ITIN, in the same name and only maintain
installment credit accounts in the SSN/ITIN credit profile rather
than revolving accounts, for the sole purpose of obtaining a
mortgage, which is optional. The trust will protect the asset and the
applicant's commercial status to remain a national but not a U.S.
citizen.
In continuing with the online estate application, after selecting
an estate, the next page requires the applicant to confirm this
selection, and the I.R.S. provides a little more information as to what
an estate is. One key component that the I.R.S. points out is that the
estate consists of the deceased person's real and personal property.
Remember, the United States and the I.R.S. are referring to the
fourteenth amendment fictitious entity, previously mentioned during
the explanation of the Cestui Que Vie Act of 1666. This entity is a
corpse, a corporation on paper only. The personal property that the
applicant is taking control of is the corporate public insurance bond,
backed by the certificate of birth (berth). To verify one of the estate's
security accounts, perform a google search: treasury direct calculator
and select treasurydirect.gov/BC/SBCPrice. Inside of the savings
bond 
calculator, 
under 
Series, 
select 
EE 
Bonds; 
under
Denomination, select $10,000; under Bond Serial Number, enter the
"berth" certificate number or driver’s license, passport number or
SSN/ITIN; and lastly under Issue Date, enter the correct issued date
and year of the security chosen. The results will populate the bond's
interest and value, and there are many bonds in the name on the
"berth" certificate.
The application's next page requires the applicant to provide
information about the deceased corporation, the applicant's FIRST
MIDDLE AND LAST NAME, including ANY SUFFIX that matches
the social security card and birth certificate. It may be shocking to
know that the estate contains trust fund money logged into accounts
where the Registrar first created the fourteenth amendment person.
The funds are held within the County CAFR (Comprehensive Annual
Financial Report) 
and 
the 
Depository 
Trust 
and 
Clearing
Corporation. Many corporations worldwide use the labor of U.S.
citizens as collateral for the corporation's taxes, dues, and liabilities.
For example, many Americans are familiar with the 13.4 billion
dollars "2008 General Motors Bailouts," causing all taxpayers to pay
General Motors' debt. This is why all U.S. citizens (ens legis
corporations) are listed as human capital on the NASDAQ. Only
corporations can settle another corporation's debt, and the
fourteenth amendment fictitious corporation is doing just that. To
see evidence of the many corporations doing business in an alleged
U.S. citizen's name, simply go to www.gmeiutility.org, click on the
search icon, and enter the social security number with dashes. All of
the companies and trust companies revealed are doing business in
the name of the U.S. citizen's fictitious corporate name and holding
them accountable for all debts, liabilities, and losses. To remove
oneself from this immense level of fraud, claiming the estate is
paramount and must be completed with the 98 foreign tax
identification number, owning the estate's assets. A foreign trust is
similar to a Holding Co. or Lis Pendens, otherwise known as a Notice
of Pendency, alerting the world that the trust has a lien via the non-
U.C.C. filing on the estate.
The applicant should enter their name in the EIN application in
the ALL CAPITAL LETTER format, CHRISTOPHER (in the First
Name box), ALEXANDER FAMILY OF (in the Middle Name box),
and WELLINGTON (in the Last Name box). Select Jr, Sr, etc., if
applicable. And lastly, enter the applicants' SSN/ITIN.
The following page requires information about the Executor,
Administrator/Personal Representative. If the principal person is
processing this application, then the Executor is the proper selection.
In the upper and lower case format, enter Christopher (in the First
Name box), Alexander (in the Middle Name box), and Wellington (in
the Last Name box). Enter the SSN/ITIN again and select Executor
as the Fiduciary Title. The last question on this page must confirm
the identity of the one completing this application. Again, if the
principal person is completing this application, then there is no third
party or power of attorney to be listed; therefore, the first selection
applies: "I am the executor, administrator, or the personal
representative of this estate." On the contrary, if another person,
such as a third party or delegated Executor, their information,
including SSN/ITIN, will be required.
The next page asks for the applicant to provide a valid mailing
address. According to the U.C.C. 9-307(b) Debtor's Location (2), A
debtor is an organization and has only one place of business located
at its place of business. Therefore, it is necessary to use a private
mailing address that is separate from where the principal applicant
rests regularly and cannot be a United States Postal Mail Box. The
correct address would be the origin of the fourteenth amendment
fictitious entity, created by the Registrar at the county office or the
county courthouse headquarters. Mr. Wellington was born in Los
Angeles, California. Per the Los Angeles County government, the
Registrar-Recorder/County-Clerk office is located at 12400 Imperial
Highway, Norwalk, CA 90650, and the Los Angeles County Superior
Court is 111 N. Hill Street, Rm 204, Los Angeles, CA 90012. Since Mr.
Wellington provided the county courthouse address as the debtor
residence on the non-U.C.C. filing, the Registrar address would
suffice on the estate application. The birth certificate was the first
security created to bring about the ens legis.
On the next page, the applicant must provide information
regarding the origins of where the estate is probated. Probate court
always deals with equity matters, sometimes referred to as chancery
court or the kings' court. It allows the government to determine what
is their property and what is not. The applicant's trust fund and or
inheritance, held within probate and the county courts, have the
records of what assets are descendible. This is why upon death and in
the absence of a will or trust, the local county assumes all of the
decedent's property, further administering the estate assets in their
fourteenth amendment trust. Simply provide the county of the
applicants' birthplace in the first box, in the ALL CAPITAL LETTER
format. Mr. Wellington would provide LOS ANGELES (the county
where the estate is probated), CALIFORNIA (State/Territory where
Estate 
is 
probated, 
AUGUST 
1999 
(Date 
Estate
created/funded/probated). (Note: the year cannot be more than 25
years from the current year. Why? As previously stated, the
fourteenth amendment fictitious entity was created within the
fourteenth amendment trust itself, such as a corporate trust, which is
perpetual and is governed under statutes and codes. Any trust that
provides a specific amount of years, up to 20-25 years, is
automatically considered an Express Trust and is governed under
equity law. The I.R.S. is seeking to find out if the estate is under
equity law or statutory law. Mr. Wellington is 22 years old, born in
1999, and the current year is 2021. If the applicant is older than 25
years of age, take the difference of 24 years from the current year,
which will be the maximum date allowed. And DECEMBER as the
closing month of the accounting year).
The application's following page asks if the applicant will have or
expect any employees in the next 12 months. At this time, the correct
answer is No. However, the estate could hire employees in the future.
As the application comes to an end, the applicant can receive their
EIN Confirmation Letter online or via the mail. Selecting online is
the fastest and most efficient option. The final page allows the
applicant to verify and confirm everything is correct. The applicant
should see the Legal name as CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER
FAMILY OF WELLINGTON ESTATE. This is the correct format.
Upon accepting the estate's confirmation, the applicant should
receive the first stage of a domestic estate number. It is wise to save
the pdf, I.R.S. Form CP-575, and make copies for safekeeping.
Now that the SSN/ITIN has its estate, the applicant should have
a 9-digit number encoded as its domestic estate. The second part of
the two-step process is converting the domestic estate into a foreign
estate by way of I.R.S. Form 8832, "Entity Classification Election."
Filing the two-page form is as follows,
Name of eligible entity making election: CHRISTOPHER
ALEXANDER FAMILY OF WELLINGTON ESTATE
Employer Identification Number: 85-####### (domestic
estate)
Number, street, and room or suite no. If a PO box, see
instructions: 12400 Imperial Highway, (Registrar Address)
City or town, state, and ZIP Code: Norwalk, CA 90650
Part I -
Section 1. Type of election: (a) Initial classification by a newly-
formed entity. Skip lines 2a and 2b and go to line 3.
Section 3. Does the eligible entity have more than one owner?
(No) You can elect to be classified as an association taxable as a
corporation or disregarded as a separate entity. Go to line 4.
Section 4. If the eligible entity has only one owner, provide the
following information: (a) Name of Owner -> HEINZ WOLFGANG
EXPRESS TRUST
(b) Identifying number of owner -> 98-#######
Section 5. If the eligible entity is owned by one or more affiliated
corporations that file a consolidated return, provide the name and
employer identification number of the parent corporation: (a) N/A &
(b) N/A
Section 6. Type of entity: (f) A foreign eligible entity with a single
owner electing to be disregarded as a separate entity
Section 7. If the eligible entity is created or organized in a foreign
jurisdiction, 
provide 
the 
foreign 
country 
of 
organization:
AMSTERDAM
Section 8. Election is to be effective beginning (month, day,
year): Today's Date
Section 9. Name and title of contact person whom the I.R.S. may
call for more information: Ahmed-El Ben, ttee
Section 10. Contact person's telephone number: Office Number
Consent Statement and Signature(s): Provide two signatures, two
dates, and the titles of each signature. The first should be the
Executor's print name, today's date, their title as Executor, and
signature. The second should be the trustee of the foreign trust;
Ahmed-El Ben or Kristopher Oliver or El print name, today's date,
their title as Beneficial Owner, and signature.
The completion of I.R.S. Form 8832 finalizes the conversion of
the SSN/ITIN from a domestic to a foreign estate. The estate is now
under the jurisdiction of the 98 Foreign Express Trust. Depending on
the state the applicant is filing from, will determine whether I.R.S.
Form 8832 should be sent to Kansas City, Missouri, or Ogden, Utah.
See the instructions page provided with the 8832 Form. The I.R.S.
may reply with a correspondence stating that the applicants'
arguments were found frivolous. If such a letter is received, don't
panic; the applicant did nothing wrong. It is merely because the
I.R.S. has a specific quota of how many 98 foreign tax identification
numbers can be issued in 3 months and how many estate
reclassifications can be allowed under a foreign jurisdiction. A
frivolous correspondence is just the Internal Revenue Service's funny
way of saying they can't complete the applicant's request at the
moment. Simply resubmit I.R.S. Form 8832 precisely as before, and
the second attempt is certainly a guarantee. The approval letter will
state,
Important information about your Form 8832
WE APPROVED YOUR FORM 8832, ENTITY CLASSIFICATION
ELECTION
We have approved your election as a foreign eligible entity with a
single owner to be disregarded as a separate entity. The effective date
of this election is Month Day, Year.
The foreign trust will own all wages earned by the employee's
estate and all earnings produced by any businesses in the jurisdiction
of the foreign trust. Since the trust is on the "0" file list, every other
entity under its classification is also on the "0" file list. This is how
wealthy families preserve their wealth for generations. The United
States Debt is up 300% from $20.4 trillion in the year 2000 to $62.3
trillion in the year 2009, according to David Walker, the former U.S.
Comptroller General who served under three U.S. Presidents. The
national debt is the United States' obligation, not the people, and it
can be avoided; however, the people do play a part in the debt's
existence. The process of tax avoidance is lawful, but tax evasion is
illegal. Some tax code practitioners use other corporations,
partnerships, or LLCs as holding companies for other businesses to
preserve wealth or save on the amount of taxes due. However, this
method will promote slight savings, but taxes are still due, anywhere
from 15% to 20% per Internal Revenue Codes 541 to 547.
In the recent example, the employee Christopher Alexander
Wellington is employed with Target, Inc. in California. He has
completed the estate conversion under his trust name, the HEINZ
WOLFGANG EXPRESS TRUST. Which both entities are now in the
Zero Percent tax bracket. Mr. Wellington can now update his tax
reporting information in one of two ways.
The first option is by remaining an employee with Target, Inc.
and filing the 2020 I.R.S. Form W-4 with his SSN or ITIN; manually
write "EXEMPT" in Step 4, section (c) to claim federal tax exemption
from withholding, and also manually write "EXEMPT" in section 3 of
California's 2020 Employee Withholding Allowance Certificate,
regarding state tax exemption. Social security and Medicare taxes
will continue to be withdrawn from Mr. Wellington's paycheck until
the human resources department at Target, Inc. receives a statement
from the trustee of the 98 foreign trusts. This statement is the I.R.S.
Form 4029, "Application for Exemption From Social Security and
Medicare Taxes and Waiver of Benefits." This exemption is only
granted if the I.R.S. finalizes and returns a copy to Mr. Wellington
approved to forward to his employer. Part I of the application
requires the applicants, Name, Social Security Number, Address, and
Date of Birth. Box 5: Check, do not send me my Social Security
Statement. This form works in correlation to the 98 Foreign Trust
being described as a Religious Group. The applicant would complete
the following sentence in Part I as, "I certify that I am and
continuously have been a member of the HEINZ WOLFGANG
EXPRESS TRUST (name of religious group) Treaty of Marrakesh,
1012, JS Amsterdam, Netherlands (foreign district or congregation
address) since Month, Day, Year, and as a follower of the established
teachings of the group, I am conscientiously opposed to accepting
benefits of any private or public insurance that makes payments in
the event of death, disability, old age, or retirement; or makes
payments for the cost of medical care, or provides services for
medical care. Public insurance includes any insurance system
established by the Social Security Act. Part II of the application must
be completed by the Trustee or Authorized Representative, hired by
the trustee to certify the above statements. Mr. Wellington must
make two copies of the original I.R.S. Form 4029 and mail all three
copies, including a W-9 with the 98 foreign tax identification
number, the recorded Declaration of Express Trust, which provides
information about the foreign sole trustee as the holder of all estate
assets to Social Security Administration, Security Records Branch,
ATTN: Religious Exemption Unit, P.O. Box 7, Boyers, PA 16020.
Information regarding the Express Trust will be provided in the
upcoming chapters. Once the SSA department approves their portion
of the application, they will forward the necessary copies to the I.R.S.
for final approval, to which Mr. Wellington will receive proper notice
to deliver to his employer. All Medicare and Social Security taxes will
cease from this point on. Treaty law is the supreme law of the land.
The Express Trust operates fully in conjunction with the several
treaties connected with the United States, dating back to the
corporation's beginning. The updated W-4, DE 4, and I.R.S. Form
4029 are only necessary if the employer refuses to accept to pay Mr.
Wellington earnings as an independent contractor, using I.R.S. Form
W-9 with the Foreign Estate EIN. Most employers will not accept the
W-9 due to the ongoing court battles of determining an employee's
finalized definition and a contractor. W-4 forms have been the only
"non-belligerent" method of the hiring process in the United States.
Furthermore, there will be no need for Mr. Wellington to file a tax
return at the end of the year since he has kept all of his earnings
throughout the year. His employer will provide him with I.R.S. Form
W-2 to file his taxes. Instead, Mr. Wellington would discharge any
tax bill consisting of federal and state obligations using the Express
Trust unless Mr. Wellington wishes to utilize the Foreign Express
Trust and claim the entire annual debit, credit, and cash transactions
as business deductions to receive every dollar back, as a tax refund.
The foreign trust can claim all of its expenses as deductions and
losses, in a sense, receive its income in the form of a tax refund.
The second option Mr. Wellington could do is update his work
status from employee to a contractor with Target, Inc. Filing the W-4
is optional, and as mentioned before, providing the W-9, as an
independent contractor with the foreign estate EIN would remove all
Federal, State, Social Security, Medicare and other withholdings
from each paycheck, if the employer is willing. Mr. Wellington would
need to complete the W-9 precisely, which is explained in the
upcoming chapters. However, this is the only form Mr. Wellington
would need to work as a contractor completely, and he would have
the chance to have the foreign Express Trust file taxes at year-end to
receive his annual income as a second occurrence.
In the meantime, Mr. Wellington would like to start a pet
grooming business in California. Most advisors would advise him to
move to a more tax-friendly state like Nevada due to the high annual
state tax of $800 in California. The $800 tax is mandatory, no
matter if the business has earned one cent; it is a privilege tax to do
business in California. However, most advisors do not know Mr.
Wellington is on the "0" file list, and all he has to do is exercise his
valid Determination Letters with the State. It is necessary to
determine what type of entity would best serve its nature to begin a
California business. Any business entity selected such as a
Corporation, Limited Liability Company, Limited Partnership,
General Partnership, Limited Liability Partnership, or Sole
Proprietorship will need a business employer identification number.
The objective is to generate as much money as possible with any
business plan and reduce the amount of taxes owed to Zero Percent
from its inception by reclassifying the entity to a foreign entity under
the jurisdiction of the 98 foreign trusts. For this example, Mr.
Wellington will use a General Partnership for the dog grooming
business, which will consist of two partners; his fiancé as the Co-
Partner and himself as the General Partner. According to California
Corporations Code, Title 3, Chapter 1, Section 18035,
(a) Unincorporated association means an unincorporated group
of two more persons joined by mutual consent for a Common
Lawful purpose, whether organized for profit or not.
The definition of an unincorporated association has similarity to
a trust. Requiring a minimum of two persons and under Common
Law, which is reminiscent of an Express Trust. Common-Law finds
its jurisdiction heard only in a court of equity. Mr. Wellington and
his fiancé have decided to call the name of their business SoCal Pet
Spa and have confirmed the availability of the business name via the
Secretary of State website and the county Recorders-Clerk office by
filing a fictitious business name statement, providing its principal
place of business address. A General Partnership EIN was obtained
from the I.R.S. EIN Online process, which was then converted to a
foreign entity using I.R.S. Form 8832. The approval of Form 8832
allowed Mr. Wellington to further submit a correspondence letter to
the I.R.S. stating that the General Partnership is not obligated to file
any tax return. In response, the I.R.S. provided an I.R.S.
Determination Letter, stating that their entity is not required to file
1040, 1041, or 1065 tax returns. The partners will open a general
partnership bank account by providing a copy of a bilateral
partnership agreement, fictitious business name statement, and their
I.R.S. CP-575 EIN Confirmation. The bank will also require the
partners to file their short-form general partnership agreement with
the California Secretary of State office by filing Form GP-1
(Statement of Partnership Authority). The information to the GP-1
can be derived from the bilateral partnership agreement within
Common Law jurisdiction provided on the next page.
GENERAL PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT
This Partnership Agreement ("Agreement") is made on Monday
Day, Year by and between the following, who shall be referred to in
this Agreement as "Partners":
Wellington, Christopher Alexander 1234 Main St, Ste 102, 90210
name address
Johnson, Tiffany Burton 2211 Broadway Blvd, Ste 54, 91201
name address
Article I: Overview
Type of Business
1.1 The Partners shall associate to form a General Partnership for
the purpose of Investments, Securities, and render services to the
several communities and shall have the power to do all lawful acts to
further the Partnership business as an Unincorporated Church
Organization.
Partnership Name
1.2 The Partnership name shall be SOCAL PET SPA GENERAL
PARTNERSHIP Dtd MM-DD-YYYY under the laws of California
State.
Partnership Term
1.3 The Partnership shall commence on the day that this
Agreement is executed and shall continue until dissolved by
agreement of the Partners or terminated under provisions of the
Agreement.
Place of Business
1.4 The Partnership's principal place of business shall be at
[9876] Central Avenue, Suite 537, [Santa Monica] California
Republic, [Near] 90404. The Partnership shall operate in other
places of business agreed upon by the Partners.
Purpose
1.5 The nature of the General Partnership is hereby declared to
exercise its Religious Instructions and Beliefs [Title 42 U.S. Code §
2000bb(a) & (c)], holding consultations, offering goods, publishing,
promoting, filing statements, procuring applications, recording
invoices in the furtherance of education, science, transportation and
giving to the public within various incorporated counties and
territories of California State honoring the covenant of God with all
of mankind (Acts 20:35, Hebrews 13:16, etc.). Each Partner shall be
known as a Church and exercise their inalienable God-given right
protected by the 1849 California State Constitution - Article I -
Declaration of Rights - Section IV and per the United States of
America Constitution "Full Faith and Credit" clause, the 1877
Georgia Constitution - Article VII - Section II - Paragraph II, shall
apply in uniform to the nature of the General Partnership in
California State.
Article II: Capital and Accounting
Initial Capital
2.1 The Partnership's initial capital shall be One Hundred
Dollars and Zero Cents (USD 100.00). Each Partner shall contribute
the initial capital by depositing the following amounts in the
Partnership business account at any National Association, Credit
Union on or after this Day of Month, Year, or any Federal Reserve
Bank.
Wellington, Christopher Alexander Fifty Dollars and Zero Cents
name contribution
Johnson, Tiffany Burton Fifty Dollars and Zero Cents
name contribution
Capital Withdrawals
2.2 No Partner (known as Co-Partner) shall withdraw any
portion of the Partnership capital without the other Partner (General
Partner) express written consent.
Profits and Losses
2.3 The Partners shall share equally in Partnership net profits
and shall bear Partner losses equally.
Books of Account
2.4 Partnership books of account shall be accurately kept and
shall include records of all Partnership income, expenses, assets, and
liabilities. Each Partner shall have the right to inspect the
Partnership books at any time.
Fiscal Year
2.5 The Partnership's fiscal year shall end on December 31 each
year.
Accounting
2.6 Complete accounting of the Partnership affairs shall be
provided at end of quarter and provided to each Partner within 15
after quarter-end. At the time of each accounting the net profits of
the Partnership shall be distributed to the Partners. Net profits shall
be profit as designed by generally accepted accounting standards,
less required working capital as determined by the Partners.
Article III: Management
Time Devoted to Partnership
3.1 Each Partner shall devote undivided time to and use the
utmost skill in the Partnership business.
Management and Authority
3.2 Each Partner shall have an equal right in the management of
the Partnership. Each Partner shall have the authority to bind the
Partnership in making contracts and incurring obligations in the
Partnership name or on its credit. No Partner, however, shall incur
obligations in the Partnership name or on its credit exceeding One
Hundred Thousand Dollars (USD 100,000.00) without the other
Partner's express written consent. Any obligation incurred in
violation of the provision shall be charged to and collected from the
Partner who incurred the obligation.
Article IV: Statement of Partnership
4.1 Concurrent with the execution of this Agreement, the
Partners, are fully aware and acknowledge the rules and laws that
this General Partnership does not require any filings or recordings of
a Statement of Certificate of Partnership Authority with the
California Secretary of State office pursuant to California Code -
Corporations Code - Title II. Partnerships - Article I. General
Provisions - Section 16105(a) with respect to partnership property
located in or transactions that occur in this state.
Article V: Withdrawal and Purchase of Partnership
Interest
Withdrawal of Partner
5.1 Upon 45 days written notice of intent to the other Partner (s),
a partner may dissociate from the partnership by withdrawing as a
partner. Notice shall be United States mail, certified, first-class
postage prepaid via Certificate of Service, addressed to a Partner at
the Partner's address set forth in the Agreement or to such other
place as may be specified in a notice given pursuant to this
Paragraph as the address for service of notice on that Partner.
Option to Purchase Dissociated Interest
5.2 On dissociation by a Partner due to the death, withdrawal, or
other act, the remaining partners may continue the Partnership
business by purchasing the outgoing Partner's interest in the
Partnership assets and goodwill. The remaining Partners shall have
the option to purchase the dissociated Partner's interest by paying to
the outgoing Partner or the appropriate personal representative the
value of the dissociated Partner's interest as determined by an
outside appraiser. If the remaining Partners do not exercise this
opinion, the Partnership shall be dissolved.
Article VI: Miscellaneous Provisions
Consents and Agreements
6.1 All consents and agreements provided for or permitted by
this Agreement shall be in writing. Signed copies of all consents and
agreements pertaining to the Partnership shall be kept with the
Partnership books.
Notices
6.2 Any notice to be given or served upon the Partnership or any
party hereto in connection with this Agreement must be in writing at
the address shown in Article I, Section 1.4. Any party may designate
any other address in substitution of the foregoing address by giving
five days written notice to all Members.
Governing Law
6.3 This Agreement shall be governed by the California Uniform
Partnership Act of 1994 as amended, and shall in all respects be a
contract under the 1849 California Constitution and other
constitutions of the several states in the union pursuant to the 1789
Constitution of The United States of America - Article IV - Section I -
"Full Faith and Credit" clause, Article I - Section X - Clause I -
"Contract" clause and [Title 26 U.S. Code § 508(c)(1)(A)].
Attorney Fees
6.4 As between the parties to this Agreement, the prevailing
party in any dispute arising from or relating to this Agreement shall
be awarded costs and attorney fees whether or not the matter is
resolved by trial or appeal.
Sole Agreement
6.5 This instrument contains the Partner's sole agreement
relating to their partnership. It correctly sets out the Partner's rights
and obligations. Any prior agreements, promises, negotiations, or
representations not expressly set forth in this instrument have no
force or effect.
CERTIFICATE OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
WE THE UNDERSIGNED, declare (or certify, verify, or state)
under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States of
America that the foregoing is true and correct [28 U.S. Code §
1746(1)], and was signed as a free and voluntary act and deed for the
uses and purposes stated therein executed in the County of Los
Angeles, California, this day.
Wellington, Christopher Alexander MM/DD/YYYY
signature (Gen. Partner) date
Johnson, Tiffany Burton MM/DD/YYYY
signature (Co-Partner) date
The above is a complete general partnership agreement that
covers every aspect of any business plan. Any business requiring
more than one employee and multiple managers, then an LLC or
Corporation should be established. There are several examples
available on the internet as a rule of thumb to draft Articles of
Incorporations or Articles of Organization, to be filed with the
Secretary of State in the proper commerce state. The most important
language to include in any business structure is found in section 6.3
regarding the governing law. By successfully reclassifying the entity
via I.R.S. Form 8832, the operating agreement must state its
jurisdiction being a separate contract from the United States and
does not seek any tax-exempt benefit or protection of the United
States, such as Title 26 § 501(c)(3). Instead, it operates as a church
under Title 26 § 508(c)(1)(A). According to the California Secretary
of State website,
a California GP must have two or more persons engaged in a
business for profit. Except as otherwise provided by law, all
partners are liable jointly and severally for all obligations of the
partnership unless agreed by the claimant. Profits are taxed as
personal income for the partners. To register a GP at the State
level, a Statement of Partnership Authority (Form GP-1) must be
filed with the California Secretary of State's office.
(Note: Registering a GP at the state level is optional.)
Form GP-1 is optional because a general partnership has the
same characteristics of a trust, which is a private contract that no
"State of" jurisdiction can control and therefore does not need the
permission of any entity to exist. However, it should be filed for two
reasons. First, opening a bank account for deposits and withdrawals
for the nature of the business and, secondly, obtaining a California
state entity number to file a specific form with the California
Secretary of State office regarding state taxes. This form is known as
California Form 3500A, Submission of Exemption Request. The
objective is to inform the Secretary of State that the business is not
required to file any state tax return to the Franchise Tax Board per
the Internal Revenue Service. Remember, due to California ceding its
jurisdiction over to the District of Columbia, and the State will heed
the I.R.S direction. If the I.R.S. Determination Letter states that the
entity is not obligated to file a federal tax return, then the State will
determine there is no obligation to pay state taxes. A California
business can obtain exemption based on Internal Revenue Code
sections 501(c)(3), 501(c)(4), 501(c)(5), 501(c)(6), 501(c)(7), 501(c)
(19) or a Federal Determination Letter. The federal letter is precisely
what Mr. Wellington has obtained from his efforts of adequately
setting up his pet grooming business as one that is foreign to the
United States. Below is a guide to complete Form 3500A,
Enclose a copy of the Federal Determination Letter.
Organization Information:
California Corporate Number/California Secretary of State file
number: CA############
FEIN (Federal Employer Identification Number): 85-#######
Name of organization as shown in the organization's creating
document: SOCAL PET SPA GENERAL PARTNERSHIP
Web address: www.website.com, If any
Street address : [9876] Central Avenue, Suite 537,
City: [Santa Monica]
State: CA
Zip code: [90404]
Telephone: Business telephone, if any.
Fax: Business fax, if any
Representative Information:
Name of representative: Christopher Alexander Wellington
Email Address: info@socalpetspa.com, if any.
Representative's mailing address: [1234] Main Street, Suite 102
City: [Beverly Hills]
State: CA
Zip Code: [90210]
Telephone: Business telephone, if any.
Fax: Business fax, if any
Part I - Entity Information
Has the Franchise Tax Board (FTB) previously revoked the
entity's tax-exempt status? No
Is the entity a trust? No
When did the organization establish, incorporate, organize, or
conduct business in California? MM/DD/YYYY
Provide gross receipts for the current year and the three
immediately preceding taxable years in existence. Gross receipts are
defined as the organization's total amounts from all sources during
its annual account period without subtracting any costs or expenses.
If the organization has been in existence for less than one year,
provide the projected amount of gross receipts for the entire year.
List the accounting period beginning to the accounting period
ending. 
Example 
mm/dd/yyyy: 
From 
MM/DD/2020 
To
12/31/2020; Projected Gross Amount: $0.00 USD
Part II - Group Exemption
Is the parent organization applying for a group exemption? No
Is a subordinate unit applying for tax-exempt status using a
parent's I.R.S. group determination letter? Yes, (Note: include a copy
of the 98 Determination Letter from I.R.S. stating that it is not
required to file federal taxes and provide a copy of the I.R.S. letter
corresponding to I.R.S. Form 8832 application, which should state
the general partnership has been approved as a foreign entity
classification.)
Mail form FTB 3500A and a copy of the federal determination
letter to:
EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS UNIT, MS F120, FRANCHISE TAX
BOARD, PO BOX 1286, RANCHO CORDOVA, CA 95741-1286
MM/DD/YYYY
date
Wellington, Christopher Alexander [28 U.S.C. 1746(1)]
signature
General Partner
title
Part III - Purpose and Activity
Exemption 
based 
on 
IRC 
501 
Section(c)(3) 
Federal
Determination Letter: "Church"
The application is complete. Providing a restricted endorsement
[28 U.S.C. 1746(1)] in Part II's signature section reserves the
applicant's rights within Common Law. It removes the assumption
and jurisdiction of agreeing to penalties of perjury under the State of
California's statutory law, which is the District of Columbia. That's it!
No more $800 minimum state tax obligation in the State of
California or any tax due to the business's amount earned. Mr.
Wellington and his soon-to-be bride have successfully created a tax-
free business from its inception. The Secretary of State will provide
an approval letter of the FTB 3500A Form, which is guaranteed. In
the meantime, the two partners can open a business bank account
with any bank or credit union that offers business accounts. The
required documentation needed is two forms of ID, social security
card or ITIN letter (from each Partner), General Partnership
Agreement (signed by both partners), California Secretary of State
Statement of Partnership Authority (Form GP-1) showing the
California File Number, the I.R.S. CP-575 showing the Federal
Employer Identification Number and $100.00 initial deposit. The
bank will make copies of the provided documentation and use the
FEIN to open the account. Mr. Wellington is now on his way to
generating the wealth that he deserves, transacting commerce as a
Native Californian National but not a citizen of the United States.
Even if Mr. Wellington decides to put the business on hold and
continue working with Target, Inc. or any employer, he is earning
money with his social security number as a foreign estate in the
I.R.S. system, not subject to 37% withholdings. The foreign estate
avoids being in the United States jurisdiction by not having any
federal or state taxes withheld from his earnings, which is not
effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business within
the U.S. His general partnership business is also not effectively
connected with the conduct of a trade or business within the U.S.
because it is operating in a foreign country to the U.S. known as the
republic of California. Every state has a similar process with similar
forms to accept the Internal Revenue Service's Determination
Letters. The only procedure left to accomplish is to draft the
irrevocable foreign instrument, known as the HEINZ WOLFGANG
EXPRESS TRUST, and register the trust in probate court or the
county recorder's office, which will be explained thoroughly in the
upcoming chapters.
M
CHAPTER FIVE
Eradicating Public Debt
ost would argue whether or not there is Lawful Money
circulating in today's economic system. In 1933, the United
States corporation asked the people to turn in all of their gold and
silver and give it to the U.S. Treasury. The U.S. Constitution, Article
I, Section 8, Clause 5, states,
To coin Money, regulate the Value thereof, and of foreign Coin,
and fix the Standard of Weights and Measures;
And Section 10, Clause 1 reads,
No State shall enter into any Treaty, Alliance, or Confederation;
grant Letters of Marque and Reprisal; coin Money; emit Bills of
Credit; make any Thing but gold and silver Coin a Tender in
Payment of Debts;
The Treasury, permitted by the Constitution, is only allowed to
issue precious metals in gold and silver coins as tender of payment.
In the year 2021, gold and silver coins are not issued by banks or
traded in any market as a form of payment for services; but instead,
the United States circulates Federal Reserve notes, better known as
cash or fiat paper. All fiat paper printed from 1933 and beyond has
the specific language stating, "THIS NOTE IS LEGAL TENDER FOR
ALL DEBTS, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE." It would make sense that due
to the confiscation of all gold and silver and circulating fiat currency,
the Treasury has all lawful money. For the people to have this lawful
money, the people must use the Treasury to get it. Lawful money
cancels out public debt created by interest applied to negotiable
instruments. Gold and silver is a fixed weight of value and, therefore,
not negotiable such as Federal Reserve notes. There are two sides to
the dollar bill: a public and private side to the Federal Reserve note.
Before 1933, all paper bills displayed a different language than all
1933 and beyond paper bills. Within any search engine, there are
images of "lawful money of the United States." There are bills in the
images, such as a five-dollar bill issued in 1928, which says
REDEEMABLE IN GOLD DEMAND AT THE UNITED STATES
TREASURY, OR IN GOLD OR LAWFUL MONEY AT ANY FEDERAL
RESERVE BANK. This wording comes from Title 12, Banks and
Banking, Chapter 3, Federal Reserve System, Subchapter XII.
Federal Reserve notes, section 411. In July of 1933, the Columbus
Dental Manufacturing Company submitted an application to the
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland in the amount of $10 grand worth
of precious metals.
The bank approved the application in just one day of submitting
the application, acquiring 476.92 ounces of gold and valued at
$9,867.14. In the depths of the Great Depression, anyone would
question why was the Cleveland Fed supplying gold to an
unsuccessful firm rather than supplying gold coins and gold-backed
currency to banks? Does the Federal Reserve supply gold to any
business today? The answer to these questions revolves around
President Roosevelt's gold program, which began in 1933. It first
restricted the private use of gold, requiring businesses like Columbus
to apply to the Fed for precious metals. The Gold Reserve Act of 1934
was signed by President Roosevelt in January of 1934, which
transferred ownership of all precious metals in the U.S. to the
Treasury, according to Section 2 of the Act. Monetary gold included
all coins and bullion held by individuals and institutions, including
the Federal Reserve. In return, the individuals and institutions
received currency at a rate of $35 per ounce of gold. This rate
reduced the gold value of the dollar to 59 percent of the value set by
the Gold Act of 1900, which equaled $20.67 per ounce. That rate had
prevailed until the spring of 1933, when the Roosevelt administration
began its campaign to devalue the dollar. The Glass-Steagall Act
effectively separated commercial banks from the process of
investment banking and created the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC), among other public programs. It was one of the
most debated legislative initiatives that President Franklin D.
Roosevelt signed into law in June 1933. According to the Federal
Reserve History,
In the wake of the 1929 stock market crash and the Great
Depression, Congress was concerned that commercial banking
operations and the payments system were incurring losses from
highly volatile equity markets. An important motivation for the Act
was the desire to restrict the use of bank credit for speculation and
direct bank credit into what Glass and others thought to be more
productive uses, such as industry, commerce, and agriculture. In
response to these concerns, the main provisions of the Banking Act
of 1933 effectively separated commercial banking from investment
banking. Senator Glass was the driving force behind this provision.
Commercial banks, which took in deposits and made loans, were no
longer allowed to underwrite or deal in securities, while investment
banks, which underwrote and managed securities, were no longer
allowed to have close connections to commercial banks, such as
overlapping directorships or common ownership.
Another relevant provision of the Act created the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC, which insures bank deposits with a
pool of money collected from banks. This provision was the most
controversial at the time and drew veto threats from President
Roosevelt. It was included at Steagall's insistence, who had the
interest of small rural banks in mind. Small rural banks and their
representatives were the leading proponents of deposit insurance.
Opposition came from large banks that believed they would end up
subsidizing small banks. Past attempts by states to install deposit
insurance had been unsuccessful because of moral hazard and
because local banks were not diversified. After the bank holiday, the
public showed vast support for insurance, partly hoping to recover
some of the losses and partly because many blamed Wall Street and
big bankers for the Depression. Although Glass had opposed deposit
insurance for years, he changed his mind and urged Roosevelt to
accept it. A temporary fund became effective in January 1934,
insuring deposits up to $2,500. The fund became permanent in July
1934, and the limit was raised to $5,000. This limit was raised
numerous times over the years until reaching the current $250,000.
All Federal Reserve member banks on or before July 1, 1934, were
required to become stockholders of the FDIC. No state bank was
eligible for membership in the Federal Reserve System until it
became a stockholder of the FDIC and became an insured institution,
with required membership by national banks and voluntary
membership by state banks. Deposit insurance is still viewed as a
great success, although the problem of moral hazard and adverse
selection came up again during the banking failures of the 1980s. In
response, Congress passed legislation that strengthened capital
requirements and required banks with less capital to close.
Today's fiat paper currency says, "This note is legal tender for all
debts public and private." How exactly does an American obtain a
public debt or a private debt? To understand these questions, a
couple of definitions that govern the United States dollar are
essential and can provide America's remedy for eradicating the
national public debt. Title 12 US Code § 411 states,
Federal reserve notes, to be issued at the discretion of the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System for the purposes of
making advances to Federal reserve banks through the Federal
reserve agents as hereinafter set forth and for no other purpose,
are authorized. The said notes shall be obligations of the United
States and shall be receivable by all national and member banks
and Federal reserve banks and for all taxes, customs, and other
public dues. They shall be redeemed in lawful money on demand
at the Treasury Department of the United States or at any
Federal Reserve Bank.
Title 12 informs everyone who uses Federal Reserve notes that
they are obligations of the United States. If Federal Reserve notes are
obligations of the United States, shouldn't the Federal Reserve or the
U.S. Treasury and its representatives be responsible for the taxes,
customs, and public dues? Public debt originates from negotiable
instruments, and private debts are associated with non-negotiable
instruments or contracts involving entities not associated with the
Federal Reserve, such as private investors. The Uniform Commercial
Code defines a negotiable instrument as,
2(a) Except as provided in subsections (c) and (d), "negotiable
instrument" means an unconditional promise or order to pay a
fixed amount of money, with or without interest or other charges
described in the promise or order,
When observing any denomination of a Federal Reserve note, it
displays a fixed amount of money, and interest can be applied to the
fixed amount or not.
(1) is payable to bearer or to order at the time it is issued or first
comes into possession of a holder;
Anyone who possesses any denomination of a Federal Reserve
note can exchange the note as soon as it is in the holder's hands.
(2) is payable on demand or at a definite time; and
Anyone who possesses any denomination of a Federal Reserve
note can exchange the note as soon as it is in the holder's hands
or anytime in the future.
(3) does not state any other undertaking or instruction by the
person promising or ordering payment to do any act in addition
to the payment of money, but the promise or order may contain
(i) an undertaking or power to give, maintain, or protect
collateral to secure payment, (ii) an authorization or power to the
holder to confess judgment or realize on or dispose of collateral,
or (iii) a waiver of the benefit of any law intended for the
advantage or protection of an obligor.
The latter explained that any negotiable instrument (fiat paper
bill, aka Federal Reserve notes) has no restrictions. Still, it obligates
the exchanger, and the exchanger has no other protections of the
law. If a negotiable instrument refers to the public side of the dollar
bill, it would mean that a non-negotiable instrument is in reference
to the dollar bill's private side.
(b) "Instrument" means a negotiable instrument.
(c) An order that meets all of the requirements of subsection (a),
except paragraph (1), and otherwise falls within the definition of
"check" in subsection (f) is a negotiable instrument and a check.
(d) A promise or order other than a check is not an instrument if,
at the time it is issued or first comes into possession of a holder,
it contains a conspicuous statement, however, expressed, to the
effect that the promise or order is not negotiable or is not an
instrument governed by this Article.
All bills before 1933 contained a conspicuous statement, stating
redeemed in lawful money on demand at the U.S. Treasury or any
Federal Reserve Bank. Therefore, they are not negotiable. This is the
key to reducing the national public debt. Non-negotiable instruments
(demand notes) must be exchanged in every commercial transaction
to discharge public debt created by negotiable instruments.
(e) An instrument is a "note" if it is a promise and is a "draft" if it
is an order. If an instrument falls within the definition of both
"note" and "draft," a person entitled to enforce the instrument
may treat it as either.
(f) "Check" means (i) a draft, other than a documentary draft,
payable on demand and drawn on a bank or (ii) a chaser's check
or teller's check. An instrument may be a check even though it is
described on its face by another term, such as "money order."
(g) "Cashier's check" means a draft with respect to which the
drawer and drawee are the same bank or branches of the same
bank
Take, for example, an American writing a check to the Internal
Revenue Service for a payment towards a tax bill. The check would
be considered a cashier's check because the I.R.S. is the public side to
the U.S. Treasury private sector. They are both the same bank on
which the same account is drawn or deposited.
(h) "Teller's check" means a draft drawn by a bank (i) on another
bank or (ii) payable at or through a bank.
(I) "Traveler's check" means an instrument that (i) is payable on
demand, (ii) is drawn on or payable at or through a bank, (iii) is
designated by the term "traveler's check" or by a substantially
similar term, and (iv) requires, as a condition to payment, a
countersignature by a person whose specimen signature appears
on the instrument.
(j) "Certificate of deposit" means an instrument containing an
acknowledgment by a bank that a sum of money has been
received by the bank and a promise by the bank to repay the sum
of money. A certificate of deposit is a note of the bank.
(U.C.C. § 3-104. Negotiable Instrument)
Take a look at any birth certificate issued from Vital Statics or
any Public Health Department that warehouses birth certificate
receipts. It will state a banknote at the bottom of the certificate with
a series of numbers. The birth certificate is a certificate of deposit
within the U.S. stock market on behalf of international bankers and
creditors for the United States. Again this pertains to U.S. citizens
being listed as human capital on the NASDAQ. According to Senator
James Traficant, Jr. of Ohio, on March 17, 1993, addressing the
House,
Mr. Speaker, we are here now in chapter 11. Members of
Congress are official trustees presiding over the greatest
reorganization of any Bankrupt entity in world history, the U.S.
Government. We are setting forth, hopefully, a blueprint for our
future. There are some who say it is a coroner's report that will
lead to our demise.
(United States Congressional Record March 17, 1993, Vol. #33,
page H-1303)
It is an established fact that the United States Federal
Government has been dissolved by the Emergency Banking Act,
March 9, 1933, 48 Stat. I, Public Law 89-719; declared by President
Roosevelt, being bankrupt and insolvent. The receivers of the United
States Bankruptcy are the International Bankers, the United Nations,
the World Bank, and the International Monetary Fund. All United
States Offices, Officials, and Departments are now operating within a
de facto status in name only under Emergency War Powers. This
democratic 
form 
of 
Government 
is 
an 
established
Socialist/Communist order under a new governor for America. This
Act was instituted by transferring and or placing the Office of the
Secretary of Treasury to that of the Governor of the International
Monetary Fund. Public Law 94-564, page 8, Section HR 13955 reads
in part,
The U.S. Secretary of Treasury receives no compensation for
representing the United States.
The Federal Reserve describes what lawful money is and how it is
applied to specific case law on its website. It reads,
"Lawful money" is a term used in the Federal Reserve Act, the
Act that authorizes the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System to issue Federal Reserve notes. The Act states
that Federal Reserve notes "shall be obligations of the United
States and shall be receivable by all national and member banks
and Federal reserve banks and for all taxes, customs, and other
public dues. They shall be redeemed in lawful money on demand
at the Treasury Department of the United States, in the city of
Washington, District of Columbia, or at any Federal Reserve
bank. "The Act did not, however, define the term "lawful money,"
but up until 1913, the only currency issued by the United States
that was legally recognized as "lawful money" was various issues
of "demand notes" (subsequently known as "old demand notes")
and "United States notes" authorized by Congress during the
Civil War.
At the time, some currency was not considered legal tender,
although it could be used by national banking associations as
"lawful money reserves." Thus, the term "lawful money" had a
broader meaning than the term "legal tender."
In 1933, Congress changed the law so that all U.S. coins and
currency (including Federal Reserve notes), regardless of when
issued, constitutes "legal tender" for all purposes. Federal and
State courts since then have repeatedly held that Federal Reserve
notes are also "lawful money." MILAM V. U.S., 524 F.2D 629
(9TH CIR. 1974), is typical of the federal and State court cases
holding that Federal Reserve notes are "lawful money." In
Milam, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit
reviewed a judgment denying relief to an individual who sought
to redeem a $50 Federal Reserve Banknote in "lawful money."
The United States tendered Milam $50 in Federal Reserve notes,
but Milam refused the notes, asserting that "lawful money" must
be gold or silver. The Ninth Circuit, noting that this matter had
been put to rest by the U.S. Supreme Court nearly a century
before in the Legal Tender Cases.
(JULLIARD V. GREENMAN), 110 U.S. 421 (1884) rejected this
assertion as frivolous and affirmed the judgment.
(What is lawful money? How is it different from legal tender? -
"http://federalreserve.gov" \t "_blank" federalreserve.gov)
Taking a closer look at the Milam case, the Federal Reserve Bank
is using to determine what is lawful money and what is not. The
Mobley M. Milan, Appellant, v. United States of America et al.,
Appellees, 524 F.2d 629 (9th Cir. 1974) is a memorandum before
Kilkenny and Trask, Circuit Judges and Craig,* District Judge:
Appellant has filed a substantial brief and an adequate reply brief
and has argued his full share of allowed time insupportable for a
demand that his $50.00 Federal Reserve Banknote be redeemed in
"lawful money" of the United States, which he says, in effect, must be
gold or silver. Appellant refused appellees' tender of an equivalent
value in Federal Reserve notes.
Appellant's contentions, in our view, were put to rest close to a
century ago in Julliard v. Greenman, 110 U.S. 421, 448, 4 S. Cti. 122,
130, 28 L. Ed. 204 (1884), in which it was said:
"… Under the power to borrow money on the credit of the United
States, and to issue circulating notes for the money borrowed, its
power to define the quality and force of those notes as currency is as
broad as the like power over a metallic currency under the power to
coin money and to regulate the value thereof. Under the two powers,
taken together, Congress is authorized to establish a national
currency, either in coin or in paper, and to make that currency lawful
money for all purposes, as regards the national Government or
private individuals…"
While we agree that golden eagles, double eagles, and silver
dollars were lovely to look at and delightful to hold, we must at the
same time recognize that time marches on and that even the time-
honored silver dollar is no longer available in its last bastion of
defense the brilliant casinos of the houses of chance in the State of
Nevada. Appellant is entitled to redeem his note, but not in precious
metal. Simply stated, we find his contentions frivolous.
Judgment affirmed.
The appellant did not realize that the Federal Reserve note has
two sides. The Supreme Court informed the appellant that the
Constitution is the contract that allows them to determine what is
lawful money and what is not. According to contract law and the
terms of the law, both cases mentioned, the Federal Reserve has
determined that Federal Reserve notes are lawful money and equal
to that of gold and silver, as long as they are used as treasury notes
on the private side. Depending on the user's knowledge and
understanding of the Federal Reserve note, it will determine its
tender of payment. Whether it is a negotiable instrument on the
public side with interest or a non-negotiable demand note on the
private side without interest. The dollar bill has two sides; the public
side is a Federal Reserve note, and the private side is a U.S. Treasury
demand note. Upon looking at a dollar bill, it may not be noticeable
how contract law applies in this manner. The words Federal Reserve
note is located at the top of the bill in a black box, referring to the
four corner rules. In contract law, the four-corner rule simply
stipulates that if two parties enter into a written agreement, they
cannot use oral or implied agreements in court to contradict the
terms of the written agreement. It is the Federal Reserve and the
United States Treasury, who are the two parties entering into an
agreement, which removes their responsibilities or liabilities for the
instrument, transferring its liability to whoever uses the instrument
as a negotiable instrument. There are two signatures on every
denomination of a Federal Reserve note, one for the Treasurer of the
United States and the other for the Secretary of Treasury. Keep in
mind; the Secretary of Treasury is now the Governor for the
International Monetary Fund, which is the public side to the actual
U.S. Treasury. Therefore the Treasurer of the United States is the
actual Treasurer of the private side.
Reducing the public debt is obtainable by steering away from
Federal Reserve notes as the beginning and end to Americans' daily
commerce. The issuer must reserve their rights upon their signature
when using lawful money. Although a Federal Reserve note is
already signed by the Treasurer of the U.S. and the Secretary of
Treasury (Governor of IMF), American's are not supposed to reserve
their rights on the actual Federal Reserve note but instead, on their
own demand notes, checks, or whenever using credit cards. Simply,
exchange Federal Reserve notes for United States Postal Money
Orders or money orders or checks issued by any Federal Reserve
bank such as Chase, Wells Fargo, Bank of America, etc. and add the
conspicuous statement of Title 12 U.S.C. § 411, that was once
provided on all United States denominational bills before 1933 in the
memo section. The imperative language is "Redeemed in Lawful
Money or on-demand at the U.S. Treasury or at any Federal Reserve
bank," and provides a signature followed by the words All Rights
Reserved. This is called a restricted endorsement, which removes the
obligation from the public and puts the obligation back onto the
United States Corporation to reduce the national public debt
lawfully. The U.C.C. informs everyone that unless the conspicuous
statement and or rights are reserved, the person using the
instrument is held responsible.
(a) If a person acting, or purporting to act, as a representative
signs an instrument by signing either the name of the
represented person or the name of the signer, the represented
person is bound by the signature to the same extent the
represented person would be bound if the signature were on a
simple contract. If the represented person is bound, the
signature of the representative is the "authorized signature of the
represented person," and the represented person is liable on the
instrument, whether or not identified in the instrument.
(b) If a representative signs the name of the representative to an
instrument and the signature is an authorized signature of the
represented person, the following rules apply:
1. If the form of the signature shows unambiguously that
the signature is made on behalf of the represented
person who is identified in the instrument, the
representative is not liable on the instrument.
(U.C.C. § 3-402 Signature By Representative)
When the Treasurer of the United States and the Secretary of
Treasury sign a negotiable instrument (i.e., dollar bill), which is a
contract, without restricting their rights, they become responsible for
the debt attached to the dollar bill. This is why Title 12 U.S.C. § 411
states that all forms of money are the United States' obligations.
Since many Americans are using negotiable instruments (dollar bills)
without restricting their rights (restricted endorsement) on their
demand notes such as money orders or checks, Americans become
responsible for the national public debt, through the fourteenth
amendment fictitious ens legis as one of the entities called the States
United. This is how the Government is off the hook from all liability
and can tax the U.S. citizen and their children to pay down extreme
amounts of debt. All checks linked to any checking account at any
bank will have a section for the issuer to sign their name on the
provided line. What's interesting is that line is not a line at all. If
zoomed in closely, the words "authorized representative" can be
seen, followed by the letters MP, meaning Micro Print. Anyone who
signs their name without restricting their rights becomes responsible
for the negotiable instrument they are creating.
The national public debt is not entirely the federal Government's
fault. Unfortunately, it is the fault of the American people. Americans
have been given a choice from the Federal Government to use any
Federal Reserve note as a negotiable instrument or a non-negotiable
demand note. There is no budget plan discussed in political
campaigns that will magically reduce the national debt. The national
debt in North America has increased more than 21% since President
Trump took office in January of 2017, with the debt-to-gross
domestic product (GDP) ratio approaching 110% in 2019. Under
President Obama's administration, the national debt increased
100%, from $10 trillion to $20 trillion. As of April 13, 2020, the U.S.
government debt is up to $24.22 trillion. It is codified within Title 31,
Money and Finance subsection 3101, that the public debt is limited.
The face amount of obligation issued and the face amount of
obligations whose principals and interest are guaranteed by the
United 
States 
Government 
may 
not 
be 
more 
than
$14,294,000,000,000. That is $9,926,000,000,000 over the legal
public debt limitations. It is easy to understand why so many
Americans (beyond politicians and economists) are starting to pay
close attention to this issue. Unfortunately, how the debt level is
explained to the public is usually glossed over. Pair this problem with
the fact that many individuals do not understand how the national
debt level affects them on a daily basis, including their future
generations.
Regarding banking, most Americans are misinformed of the
workings of the Federal Reserve System or how money is circulated
in the United States economy. It all starts with politicians requesting
to be put into office, promising to provide more free benefits to the
public than the opposition. The main issue the politician faces is the
need for more money to provide the promised free stuff. However,
the State spends more than its income, which is called Deficit
Spending. To pay for that deficit spending, the Treasury borrows
currency by issuing a bond. A bond is a fixed income instrument that
represents a loan made by an investor to a borrower. It could be
thought of as an IOU. Between the lender and the borrower, that
includes the details of the loan and its payments. Treasury bonds are
indeed the national public debt, stealing prosperity from the future
for spending today, to be paid in the form of taxes. The American
people could put an end to it by merely using non-negotiable
instruments. Once the bond is created, the Treasury then holds a
bond auction, and the world's largest banks compete to buy a large
part of the national debt and make a profit by earning interest. After
the auction, the banks enter an open market operation to sell the
bonds to the Federal Reserve for their profit. To pay for the bonds,
the Federal Reserve begins to write a check on an account with
nothing in it. According to the Boston Federal Reserve Bank,
"When people write a check, there must be sufficient funds in our
account to cover the check, but when the Federal Reserve writes
a check, there is no bank deposit on which that check is drawn.
When the Federal Reserve writes a check, it is creating money."
The Federal Reserve then delivers the bad checks to the banks,
and at this point, currency comes into existence. The big banks then
use that currency to buy more bonds at the next Treasury auction.
What is a check? A check is surprisingly an IOU for cash, requiring
the receiver to go to the bank and pick it up. In all actuality, the U.S.
Treasury and the Federal Reserve exchange IOUs, enriching the
banks as middlemen and indebting the people. This is the origination
of all of the paper fiat currency! The Treasury then deposits the
newly created currency to several government branches, and the
Government then proceeds to deficit spending, which is directed to
public works, social services, and wars. The employees of
Government, hospitals, local school districts, and others then deposit
their paychecks into local commercial banks or institutions. This is
where things get interesting. When an employee deposits their
earnings from labor, they are not depositing into an account to be
safely held in trust. Instead, the employee is loaning the bank their
earnings, and within certain legal limits, the banks can do anything
with it to their benefit. This includes purchasing shares in the stock
market or the foreign exchange market and loaning them to the
public without giving the employee their fair share of profit. Instead,
should the employee choose to keep their earnings in a savings
account, the bank sees fit only to give 0.01% to 1% interest back to
the employee while the bank made a fortune. At this point, the
Federal Reserve System's primary operation comes into play once
the employee deposits their earnings. A process called Fractional
Reserve banking is the primary function of all banks in America. It is
a system in which only a fraction of bank deposits are backed by
actual cash on hand and available for withdrawal. This happens to
expand the economy by freeing capital for lending theoretically. Loan
ratios vary from institution to institution. Using the Target, Inc.
employee, Christopher Alexander Wellington, from the previous
chapter, as an example to show how earnings affect the economy
from a 10% reserve ratio. Suppose Mr. Wellington received a
separate bonus check from Target, Inc. for $100 to be deposited into
Citibank, N.A. The bank can legally take $90 and loan it out to the
public without informing Mr. Wellington. Citibank must hold $10 of
his deposit in a reserve account in case Mr. Wellington wants to
come back to make a withdrawal. Of course, his withdrawal of the
entire $100 comes from a pool of other 10% reserves from other
people; these reserves are called vault cash. How exactly does Mr.
Wellington's bank account statement remain a total of $100 as an
available balance? Because the bank created a $100 I.O.U. as bank
credit in its place. According to the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York,
Commercial banks create checkbook money whenever they grant
a loan, only by adding new deposit dollars in accounts on their
books in exchange for a borrower's IOU.
(Federal Reserve Bank of New York, "I Bet You Thought," p.19)
Under this example, Mr. Wellington's deposit of $100 allowed
Citibank to create an additional 10% bank credit of $90, and
therefore there is $190 in existence. People take out loans from the
bank to buy a house, a car, have operating money for a business plan,
or consolidate debt. A borrower who wishes to buy a car then takes
out a loan of $90 from the same bank that was created as bank credit
from Mr. Wellington's account and pays the seller for the car. Then
the seller deposits the $90 into their Wells Fargo account, and their
bank then loans out 90% of that deposit, creating another set of bank
credits, which would be $81 for a total of $271 in existence. This
process repeats and repeats up to $1,000 bank credit, all backed by
just $100 of vault cash. As mentioned before, some reserve ratios are
10%, 3%, and some are 0%. This is where the vast majority of the
currency supply in America comes from. In fact, 92%-96% of all
currency in existence is created not by the Government but within
banks. The result of this currency expansion by the banks is far
higher than this example. This tremendous expansion of currency
causes the everyday prices of goods and services to act as a sponge on
this never-ending expanding supply. The more currency circulating
in existence, the more prices rise to use all of the currency equally.
This is where inflation is derived; rising prices are nearly a symptom!
Sadly this is the entire makeup of America's currency supply. The
U.S. Treasury and the Federal Reserve exchange IOUs printing
4%-8% of the money into existence, and the other 92%-96% is
nothing but numbers typed into a computer by the banks as bank
credits. Unfortunately, the American people work for that currency
supply, trading moments of their lives, hour by hour, day by day,
year by year in exchange for numbers someone printed on pieces of
paper or typed into a computer.
In the United States, neither paper currency nor deposits have
value as commodities. Intrinsically, a dollar bill is just a piece of
paper; deposits merely book entries. Coins do have some
intrinsic value as metal but generally far less than their face
value. What, then, makes these instruments - checks, paper
money, and coins - acceptable at face value in payment of all
debts and for other monetary uses? Mainly, it is the confidence
people have that they will be able to exchange such money for
other financial assets and for real goods and services whenever
they choose to do so.
(Modern Money Mechanics - A Workbook on Bank Reserves
and Deposit Expansion, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago)
The numbers printed or typed now represent Americans' blood,
sweat, tears, labor, ideas, and talents so that they can save some of
those numbers and pay the tax collector, known as the Internal
Revenue Service. The I.R.S. then delivers the taxes over to the U.S.
Treasury so that the Treasury can pay the principal and interest on
the bonds that the Federal Reserve bought with a check, drawn on an
account with NOTHING in it! Much of the taxes collected are not
used for schools, public roads, and services but to pay interest on
bonds that the Federal Reserve bought with a check drawn on an
account with nothing in it. Is the Federal Reserve committing fraud
on the American people, or are the American people unknowingly
allowing the Federal Reserve to play their game? Before the
establishment of the Federal Reserve, there was no need for personal
income tax. The Federal Reserve was created in 1913, and in that
very same year, the Constitution was amended to allow income tax,
stemming from section 5 of the fourteenth amendment. How many
hours and dollars were siphoned away from Americans and into the
hands of the owners of the Federal Reserve? The Federal Reserve
bank is not a federal entity at all; it has stockholders. A stockholder is
a share of stock representing a percentage of ownership in a
corporation; therefore, the stockholders are the owners of that
corporation. The Federal Reserve is a private corporation with
owners, according to their website, which says,
Appendix B. Dividends
B.1 Payment of Dividends from Surplus
After all necessary expenses of a Federal Reserve bank have been
paid or provided for, the stockholders shall be entitled to receive
an annual dividend of six per centum on the paid-in capital
stock, which dividend shall be cumulative.
(Federal Reserve Act, Section 7. Division of Earnings)
The American people know all too well that whenever the issue of
reducing the national debt or talk of the debt ceiling, the federal
Government always prints more money or raises taxes to settle the
enormous debt. Here's why talk of the debt ceiling is delusional. If
the federal government prints the very first dollar into existence and
that is the only dollar that exists, but the Government promises to
pay it back plus another dollar's worth of interest, where does the
Government get the second dollar to pay interest? The answer is that
the Government will have to borrow the second dollar into existence
and promise to pay it back with interest. Now there are two dollars
that exist, but four dollars is owed, and so on—leading to never
enough currency to pay the debt, atlas, not with this method. The
only way to stop increasing the national public debt, created by
negotiable instruments, is by issuing lawful private money, also
known as non-negotiable instruments. But to reduce the current
national debt is entirely different.
Title 31, Money and Finance, the U.S. Treasury informs the
American people,
(a) To provide the people of the United States with an
opportunity to make gifts to the United States Government to be
used to reduce the public debt -
(1) the Secretary of the Treasury may accept for the Government
a gift of
(A) money made only on the condition that it be used to reduce
the public debt;
(B) an obligation of the Government included in the public debt
made only on the condition that the obligation be canceled and
retired and not reissued;
(Title 31, U.S.C. § 3113. Accepting gifts)
To discharge the public debt, such as student loans, bank loans,
mortgages, etc., the Secretary of Treasury has informed the public of
how to successfully aid the Government in debt reduction. Non-
negotiable demand notes cancel out negotiable instruments by
providing the words of Title 12 U.S.C. § 411. There must also include
the words of section (A) of Title 31 U.S.C. § 3113 on the American
people's demand notes. For example, suppose the Target, Inc.
employee, Christopher Alexander Wellington, has an auto loan for
$16,500 and a monthly payment of $378.47 with Ford Motor Credit.
Mr. Wellington has had this loan for three years now and has
decided to cancel the obligation of interest affecting the overall
national economic health. The first thing Mr. Wellington must do is
understand the laws of making conspicuous statements on
negotiable instruments. This rule comes from the Uniform
Commercial Code, known as Accord and Satisfaction By Use of
Instrument.
(b) Unless subsection (c) applies, the claim is discharged if the
person against whom the claim is asserted proves that the
instrument 
or 
an 
accompanying 
written 
communication
contained a conspicuous statement to the effect that the
instrument was tendered as full satisfaction of the claim.
(U.C.C. § 3-311(b))
Every State has encoded this U.C.C. rule into its state code. Being
that Mr. Wellington is a Californian National, the state code for
accord and satisfaction is CA CIV Code, Chapter 4, Section 1526,
(a) Where a claim is disputed or unliquidated, and a check or
draft is tendered by the debtor in settlement thereof in full
discharge of the claim, and the words "payment in full" or other
words of similar meaning are notated on the check or draft, the
acceptance of the check or draft does not constitute an accord
and satisfaction if the creditor protests against accepting the
tender in full payment by striking out or otherwise deleting that
notation or if the acceptance of the check or draft was
inadvertent or without knowledge of the notation.
(b) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the acceptance of a check or
draft constitutes an accord and satisfaction if a check or draft is
tendered pursuant to a composition or extension agreement
between a debtor and its creditors and pursuant to that
composition of the extension agreement, all creditors of the same
class are accorded similar treatment, and the creditor receives
the check or draft with knowledge of the restriction.
A creditor shall be conclusively presumed to have knowledge of
the restriction if a creditor either:
(1) Has, previous to the receipt of the check or draft, executed a
written consent to the composition or extension agreement.
(2) Has been given, not less than 15 days nor more than 90 days
prior to receipt of the check or draft, notice, in writing, that a
check or draft will be tendered with a restrictive endorsement
and that acceptance and cashing of the check or draft will
constitute an accord and satisfaction.
(c) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), the acceptance of a check or
draft by a creditor constitutes an accord and satisfaction when
the check or draft is issued pursuant to or in conjunction with a
release of a claim.
(d) For the purposes of paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), mailing
the notice by first-class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the
address shown for the creditor on the debtor's books or such
other address as the creditor may designate in writing constitutes
notice.
According to the law mentioned above, Mr. Wellington first
needs to provide the Ford Motor Credit Company a certified mail
notice with an attached proof of service, made attention to the Chief
Executive Officer. The notice should inform their office will receive a
check or draft with a "restrictive endorsement" not less than 15 days
or not more than 90 days from the date of receipt of the notice. Once
15 days have passed, and Mr. Wellington has received a returned
certified mail receipt with either no response from Ford Motor Credit
Company or a positive confirmation, he may begin to provide his
non-negotiable demand note with a restrictive endorsement. Mr.
Wellington should use a United States Postal Money Order because
of the Post Office's contractual relationship with the United States
Treasury via the Post Master General. The Post Office is the closest
form of lawful money from the U.S. Treasury that Americans have
available. Per Title 39 of the United States codebook, all officers and
employees are constitutional officers,
Before entering upon their duties and before receiving any
salary, all officers and employees of the Postal Service shall take and
subscribe the following oath or affirmation:
"I, , do solemnly swear (or affirm) that I will support and defend
the Constitution of the United States against all enemies, foreign and
domestic; that I will bear true faith and allegiance to the same; that I
take this obligation freely, without any mental reservation or purpose
of evasion; and that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of
the office on which I am about to enter."
(Title 39, U.S.C. § 1011. Oath of office; Pub. L. 91-375, August 12,
1970, 84 Stat. 733)
Title 39, U.S.C. § 2006. The relationship between the Treasury
and the Postal Service reads,
(c) Notwithstanding section 2005(d)(5) or 2011(e)(4)(E) of this
title, obligations issued by the Postal Service shall be obligations
of the Government of the United States, and payment of
principal and interest thereon shall be fully guaranteed by the
Government of the United States, such guaranty being expressed
on the face thereof, if and to the extent that -
(1) the Postal Service requests the Secretary of Treasury to pledge
the full faith and credit of the Government of the United States
for the payment of principal and interest thereon; and
(2) the Secretary, in his discretion, determines that it would be in
the public interest to do so.
Mr. Wellington has purchased a United States Postal Money
Order in the amount equal to his monthly car payment of $378.47.
The "pay to the order" would state Ford Motor Credit Company, with
its address right below the company name. The memo section is the
most crucial, converting the pre-made negotiable instrument to a
non-negotiable demand note. The memo should have the following
exact language, "Payment in Full For The Reduction of Public Debt
Account No. 1234567890 (i.e., car loan account number); Redeemed
in Lawful Money on Demand at the U.S. Treasury or at any Federal
Reserve bank." Mr. Wellington would then provide his name,
followed by the words "All Rights Reserved," and provides his
address right below. The next step is to properly register the demand
note as an extension to Mr. Wellington's U.C.C. 1 Financing
Statement, as explained in Chapter Three: Existence of Life. The
extension of the uniform commercial code is the form U.C.C. 3
Financing Statement Amendment. Mr. Wellington would provide the
initial U.C.C. 1 Financing Statement File No. from the Secretary of
State's office in box 1a. Box 3, the option for continuation would be
checked, any secured party of record would be checked in box 5, as
this continuing statement affects the Express Trust. In box 8, the
third option would be checked as giving an entire restated collateral
description. Mr. Wellington would provide the full automobile
details, the full Ford Motor Credit Company account details
(including contract sales date), and a full description of the demand
note. The HEINZ WOLFGANG EXPRESS TRUST would be provided
in box 9a for the secured party organization name. The U.C.C. 3 must
be directed to the Secretary of State for recording. A certified copy of
both the U.C.C. 1 and 3 should be obtained from the Secretary of
State, and Mr. Wellington is now prepared to delegate discharge
instructions to the United States Post Master General. Both U.C.C.
forms, with the actual U.S.P.S. Money Order, and a certified copy of
the Declaration of Express Trust (further explained in the upcoming
chapters), and lastly, an introductory trustee letter made attention to
the Post Master General, with the I.R.S. Form W-8BEN would
complete Mr. Wellington's accord and satisfaction discharge packet.
The W-8BEN will further be explained as well. The introductory
letter should provide brief detail introducing the foreign express
trust as well as advising the postmaster general to register the
demand note as a treasury note with the Secretary of the U.S.
Treasury Department and forward the demand note to Ford Motor
Credit Company in respect to Title 31 U.S.C. 3113, Accepting Gifts.
The Chief Executive Officer of the Board of Governors of the United
States Postal Service can receive the packet at 475 L'Enfant Plaza
SW, Washington, D.C. That's it! Once Mr. Wellington sends the
payment to Ford Motor Credit Company, and they have cashed the
money order, his $16,500 obligation of the United States has just
been canceled, reducing the national debt minus $16,500 and would
then receive a 1099-C from the lender. The HEINZ WOLFGANG
EXPRESS TRUST must settle the amount reported in the 1099-C by
using the same method or by sending an Explanatory Statement to
the I.R.S. stating that the entity is not required to file nor pay taxes.
The I.R.S. will definitely need the trust to cancel the amount
provided in the informational 1099-C to clear their books, or else it
will be considered as an income to Mr. Wellington's social security
account.
A mortgage or credit card payment would operate just the same.
In the event that one is in the middle of purchasing an automobile
using an installment sales contract or at the closing table regarding
real estate, a restrictive endorsement is still required to help reduce
the national public debt. All installment sales contracts and
mortgage promissory notes are obligations of the United States, just
waiting to be circulated from one party to another as a negotiable
instrument. Adding the language "Redeemed in Lawful Money on
Demand at the U.S. Treasury or at any Federal Reserve bank" with a
signature, followed by the words "All Rights Reserved," will most
assuredly prevent a negotiable instrument.
If all Americans proceeded to issue demand notes in all areas of
commercial transactions, with the intent to discharge the public debt
to stop assuming liability for the use of Federal Reserve notes, the
national debt could be eradicated in no time at all. The Federal
Reserve note is legal tender for all debts, public and private. All
paper fiat currency bills have two sides. A public side from the use of
negotiable instruments requires interest, and a private side from the
use of non-negotiable instruments that have no interest but act as
lawful money and or treasury notes. Besides the United States Postal
Service offering Americans the best access to the United States
Treasury, there is also the United States Coin. The majority are led to
believe that the Federal Reserve has all the power to create money
when indeed, all the power they have is to print Federal Reserve
notes but never to coin money. Minting coin has always been the
responsibility of the United States Treasury per the constitution.
Despite the smallest amounts of silver, gold, and copper in the
current U.S. coin, it will always hold more value than a Federal
Reserve note. An article entitled "Contracts Payable in Gold," by
George Cyrus Thorpe, Showing the Legal Effect of Agreements to Pay
in Gold – Senate Resolution No. 62, April 17, 1933, quotes,
The laws of the United States recognize two kinds of money,
namely coin, and paper. The term "dollars in species" means gold
or silver coined dollars. "Dollars in currency" means dollars in
notes or any paper money current in the community.
(Trebilcock v. Wilson (1872) 12 Wall. 687, 20 L. Ed. 460)
As of today, the current median income is $34,466 in North
America, which is $2,872.17 per month that the average household is
bringing in to support their families. Back in 1913, the dollar to gold
ratio was just $29.01, and today, one gold dollar is still measured by
the same gold dollar value, which was used in 1849 to 1889, weighing
in at 1.672 grams or 0.04837 troy ounces. One gold dollar is equal to
$91.91. So, if gold and silver are the standards for real tangible
money that will never lose its value in contrast to paper fiat money,
and if the average family brings in $2,872.17 fiat per month; then in
actuality, an average family truly brings in just $31.25 of gold per
month. As stated before, if all Americans proceeded to issue demand
notes in all areas of commercial transactions, with the intent to
discharge the debt to stop assuming liability for the use of Federal
Reserve notes, the national debt could be eradicated in no time at all.
One final thought in relation to the National Public Debt, which
is highly talked about every year, especially in the year 2020 with the
wide-spread of the Global Economic Pandemic, known as COVID-19;
is that the name of a U.S. citizen, U.S. resident, or Legal Permanent
Resident and its Social Security Number or ITIN, creates the
securities needed for the federal government to then package those
securities into bonds to be sold around the world to investors. All
U.S. citizens have been naturalized via the birth certificate. All birth
certificates have a listed Registrar or Assessor Clerk, and according
to Title 8 U.S.C. § 1101(a)(7), the term "clerk of court" means a clerk
of a naturalization court. As the bonds are sold, the federal
government cannot get away with 100% of fraud, earning a profit
from the U.S. citizens labor; therefore, the government gives a
portion of the securities to its citizens on the private side called the
CAFR funds and given to the citizens on the public side via old-age
insurance, workers compensation, social security insurance, 401k,
Medi-Cal, Medicare and other means of public insurance. Every
created security goes into the CAFR accounts in the county and
continues to grow. Whenever there's talk about the debt ceiling or
debt clock in New York City, it is money ($27 Trillion) that is owed to
nationals on the private side of the ledger and ($27 Trillion) of
dischargeable debt on the public side. The private side is also
inheritance funds that are uncollectable unless the national operates
completely in trust in the name of their forefathers and foremothers
of the Mehomitan Nation, which means the national is descendible
who is able to collect what is rightfully theirs. Only nationals of an
Express Trust, a.k.a Natural Persons, can own property fully
protected by the United States Constitution "contract clause.".
Section 1. The rights protected by the Constitution of the United
States are the rights of natural persons only. Artificial entities,
such as corporations, limited liability companies, and other
entities, established by the laws of any State, the United States,
or any foreign state shall have no rights under this Constitution
and are subject to regulation by the People, through Federal
State, or local law. The privileges of artificial entities shall be
determined by the People through Federal, State, or local law
and shall not be construed to be inherent or inalienable.
(116th Congress 1st Session, H.J. Resolution 48, February 22,
2019)
T
CHAPTER SIX
Credit Secrets, Investing & Banking
he economy is changing, and it is changing rapidly in the eyes of
Money. There are precious metals, notes, bonds, certificates,
commodities, and most recently, bitcoin (digital dollar and digital
wallets) per the 116th Congress, 2D Session, "Financial Protections
and Assistance for America's Consumers, States, Businesses, and
Vulnerable Populations Act." Even states in America, such as
Nevada, Utah and Texas, now mint, and print gold-backed currency
exchangeable in their states for goods and services.
Everyone has heard that cash is king; however, this new system
is not the case. Credit is king, and the world is preparing for two
monetary systems for two types of people. The first system is a credit
digital dollar system for all U.S. citizens operating outside of a
natural person. The second, precious metals for all nationals
operating within a natural person, known as an Express Trust.
Credit is king; therefore, it is wise to review a couple of useful
credit tips that any FICO professional would advise.
Credit Tip #1; how many credit cards should one have? Well, the
answer is as many as possible. The more, the better, but the real
question is, what is the minimum amount of credit cards one should
have? The answer is three credit cards. FICO (the Fair Isaac
Company) has implemented a scoring model based on revolving
credit as 40% of the entire FICO score, ranking higher than late
payments, mortgages, or student loans. The key is to have three
credit cards open at all times, with balances maintained at 7% or less.
FICO has figured out that if a borrower can maintain three credit
cards under 7%, the likelihood of having a derogatory item over the
next 24 months is extremely low, so the score increases. If borrowers
go over 7% up to 17%, then the score drops 10 points. It is about 10
points for every 10% of the credit limit. If the limit is 100% maxed, it
will lose approximately 100 points.
Credit Tip #2; does canceling credit cards boost the credit score?
The answer is an absolute no! Jumping back to the first credit tip,
FICO always wants to see at least three credit cards because it shows
responsibility. If borrowers closed all accounts and canceled all
credit cards, thinking that no credit is good credit, FICO will then
view the debtor as an alcoholic that avoids the local bars. In this case,
the proper term to use is a "crediholic" (one who abuses credit).
FICO will not trust the borrower with credit if they don't trust
themselves. It is also good to practice using specific types of credit
cards to avoid cancelation. Using VISA or Mastercard pay networks
is highly preferred over department store credit cards. Department
cards can only be used at the participating stores and not anywhere
VISA or Mastercard is accepted. Therefore, it forces the card user to
shop more than they need to, and if the card user doesn't make
purchases, then the credit card company will decrease the card limit
or cancel the account, which will decrease the FICO score drastically.
It is best to have three major credit cards that can be used anywhere.
One for living expenses, the second for monthly bills, and the third
for miscellaneous spendings, such as batteries for the smoke detector
or auto repair maintenances. It is imperative to use credit cards
every month sparingly. If the credit user chooses to max the cards to
receive the cashback or rewards, pay off or pay down to the credit
limit's 7% mark. And last but not least, pay off 100% of the balance
two months before applying for new credit or new loans.
Credit Tip #3; does paying off installment loans early increase
the FICO score? No! Before diving into this question, determining
the difference between installment credit and revolving credit is
critical. Revolving and installment credit come in the form of secured
and unsecured credit. Installment credit is an extension by fixed and
scheduled payments made until the loan is paid in full. If the
scheduled payment is $10 per month at 50 months and the borrower
paid 49 payments of $10 each month, the remaining payoff balance
would be $10, and the $4,900 paid to the bank would not be
available to the borrower. Revolving credit is renewed as the debt is
paid, allowing the borrower access to a credit line whenever needed.
FICO's scoring model for early installment loan payoff is likened to
the medical field when a pregnant woman is in the care of a
physician. Here's a fair question. Would the physician prefer the
pregnant woman to go into delivery in the ninth month or early in
the sixth month? Of course, the physician and the mother would
prefer to go to the full term for a healthy delivery. It is the same
concept for installment loans. Banks set out an agreement for
principal and interest and prefer the debtor to go the full term in
paying off their loans. So how exactly can the debtor maintain good
credit, save money and not procure an early installment loan
penalty? Applying the Target, Inc. employee, Mr. Wellington, once
more, Mr. Wellington has a $10,000 personal loan, with a scheduled
payment term of 57 months at $184.46 per month. To avoid a
prepayment penalty, Mr. Wellington will pay down the loan to the
number of scheduled payments. In this case, the remaining balance
goal would be $57; therefore, Mr. Wellington would work to submit a
principal payment of $9,943 and, for the next 57 months, he would
pay $1 plus interest (in change) per month. With this method, Mr.
Wellington has avoided prepayment penalty, reduced the monthly
debt obligation, and maintained excellent payment history for the
installment loan, fulfilling the 57-month term. If Mr. Wellington did
not have the $9,943 in cash, he could select to use a revolving credit
card and utilize the credit card payment system provided in Credit
Tip #5.
Credit Tip #4; is it best to use debit cards or credit cards? Never
use debit cards but always use credit cards! When it comes to
practicing good credit management, using credit cards in the same
manner as a debit card is more rewarding. Most credit cards offer 2%
cashback on groceries, gas purchases, or all purchases as a whole.
Debit cards are a one-time payment transaction without interest,
which does not provide purchasing power or FICO points. There are
more debit card transactions than there are credit transactions in
North America. Switching all debit cards to credit card use would
maximize the 40% FICO scoring model and have the banks begging
consumers to take new credit card offers. The average American
household family income is an annual $35,977, according to the 2019
U.S. Census Bureau, at $2,998 per month. This family would
comfortably spend approximately $3,000 per month using this
budget, precisely 30% of a $10,000 credit limit. With $3,000 in
monthly transactions to pay for all bills and living expenses, the
family would pay off the $3,000 on payday, ready for next month's
transactions, taking advantage of all of the available cashback
rewards. The use of a credit card offers additional protection at local
gas stations because the user's funds are not immediately withdrawn
from the user's bank account. In contrast, debit cards are riskier, as
credit thieves favor gas stations and might be able to access user's
accounts with their PIN.
Credit Tip #5; what is the fastest way to increase the credit
score? The fastest and most efficient strategy to increase the credit
score is by forcing the credit bureaus to report payments twice per
month, legally. The key is to pay attention to the statement closing
date because most creditors report payment activity 3-4 days after
the statement closing date. For instance, a credit card payment due
on the 13th of every month and a statement closing date on the 21st
of every month with a $150 monthly payment; the borrower should
pay $75 (first half) on the 1st and $75 (second half) on the 13th.
Paying on the 1st allows enough time for the payment to post before
the second payment is applied on the actual due date. The borrower
can use the card at any time in the month, except during the closing
cycle, which is 3-4 days from the statement closing date (21st-25th).
The borrower can also spend any amount within their means,
ensuring that the balance is within 7%-30% before the statement
closing date. The first half of the payment is usually right on
schedule with the creditor's statement date. This method will
decrease the interest due and cause a double payment reported to
the credit bureaus.
These helpful credit tips have maintained healthy personal and
business credit reports. When it comes to living in trust, deciding to
operate in the public or private can be jarring. But with full
knowledge and understanding, choosing one or the other is easy.
Utilizing both sides of the ledger is necessary. For credit purposes,
using the foreign estate EIN to build corporate business credit,
obtaining a Paydex Score and personal credit, obtaining a FICO
Score is possible. The truth about the estate is that it is the highest
form of credit anyone could ever access. And, the best way to access
its treasures is through bankruptcy court, paired with the foreign
Express Trust.
Companies build their corporate credit profiles for a certain pre-
determined number of years with a plan to bankrupt the entity while
storing all of its assets (property) inside of the trust. Consequently,
all corporate debts, such as loans and credit lines, are forgiven
without selling the assets to cover the debt. It's no wonder prominent
investors such as Donald Trump and Mitt Romney utilize the
bankruptcy strategy. Whenever bankruptcy occurs, the social
security number or the company's employer identification number is
used to obtain a bankruptcy estate number, which has an abundance
of securities to pay off the existing debt. This strategy has worked
well for those who know how to plan with real estate. Suppose a
potential borrower's application is approved for financing a
$580,000 house in their name using the social security number and
then proceeds to transfer the title into the name of the foreign
Express Trust, removing all county tax liability. The applicant files
for bankruptcy to avoid foreclosure. The court utilizes the estate to
pay off the mortgage obligation without selling the property or
processing a short sale. The applicant is not the owner but only the
Express Trust with the trustee as the title's legal owner. Therefore,
the trustee remains the holder and legal owner of the title, and the
mortgage obligation is discharged from the borrower's credit report;
since the Express Trust is the secured party holding a "nine billion
dollar lien" against the First Middle Last Name, debtor, as the
holder-in-due-course. During this 7-8 year period, the debt-free
individual can apply for all the credit they want. Credit card
companies often flood the mailboxes of recent bankruptcy filers
because creditors know the applicant's name, social security number,
and a signature will allow the creditor to have instant access to the
estate as a claim to the abandoned securities. Within the 7-8 year
window, the bankruptcy estate continuously pays off debt!
Financiers would have the general public believe there is no credit
available during a bankruptcy. It would much serve the courts, the
county, and the State to not inform the people of the bankruptcy
court's truth. During this 7-8 year period, the municipalities are
taking advantage of the estates' abandonment. The municipalities
use I.R.S. Form 1099-A (Acquisition or Abandonment of Secured
Property) and 1096 (Annual Summary and Transmittal of U.S.
Information Returns) procuring all of the abandoned securities with
the State and County Comptroller/Controller office.
Chapter 7 bankruptcies are occasionally referred to as
"liquidation" bankruptcies. Firms and associations experiencing this
form of bankruptcy are past the reorganization stage and must sell
off any "non-exempt" assets to pay creditors. To qualify for a chapter
7 relief, the debtor can be a corporation, an individual, or a small
business. However, one is forbidden from filing for bankruptcy if
another bankruptcy petition was dismissed within the previous 180
days due to the debtor's failure to show up in court. A debtor likewise
forgoes the right to file for bankruptcy if the debtor agrees to dismiss
a former case after creditors asked the bankruptcy court to grant
them the right to seize properties on which they hold the liens. The
critical takeaway is having all property and assets held in the Express
Trust, resulting in an exempted status. The Express Trust holds the
real lien, exempting the assets from being sold to pay off the
creditors. The law of the land obtains this Chapter 7 rule from the
bible, specifically from the book of Deuteronomy chapter 15:1-2,
which reads,
At the end of every "seven" years, you shall grant a release of
debts. And this is the form of the release: Every creditor who has
lent anything to his neighbor shall release it; he shall not require
it of his neighbor or his brother because it is called the Lord's
release.
(New King James Version)
When it comes to building private personal credit, using the
foreign estate EIN to avoid using the social security number is easy
and perfectly legal under the Section 7 of the Privacy Act of 1974
(Title 5 U.S. Code § 552a) provides,
"It shall be unlawful for any Federal, State or local government
agency to deny to any individual any right, benefit, or privilege
provided by law because of such individual's refusal to disclose
his social security account number."
(Sec. 7(a)(1))
The first step is to file a Fictitious Business Name or DBA with
the county of business operations. The name should be in the format
First Name Middle Name Family of Last Name Estate d/b/a First
Name Middle Name Last Name, using the Registrar address as the
principal place of residence, a different mailing address, a different
email address, and a new phone number not connected with any past
SSN/ITIN credit profile. The second step is to create an Internet
presence with the name, new address, new phone, and new email
address (Hotmail, Yahoo, Gmail) using listyourself.net, followed by
signing up with different department stores, airlines, and fuel
rewards cards or programs. The third step is to wait 30 days before
applying for the Capital One Auto Finance program, Apple-Card,
Amazon, and American Express to deny credit. The denial will create
a credit profile with the major credit bureaus using the information
provided with different department stores, airlines, and fuel rewards
cards or programs. The fourth step is to wait another 30 days to
finalize the credit profile before re-applying to Capital One for their
Capital One Secured Mastercard, providing a refundable deposit
anywhere from $49-$200. This same process should take place with
Discover I.T. and Merrick Bank or the like. The goal is to have three
major credit cards reporting for a high credit score and to have the
credit limit of all three credit cards eventually equate to 3.5 times the
amount of the credit user's monthly bills. For example, if Mr.
Wellington consistently pays out $4,500 per month in living
expenses, then each of the three credit cards should have a minimum
limit of $5,250, totaling $15,750. With a combination of all three
cards and spending only 30% of $15,750, Mr. Wellington would have
paid all of his monthly living expenses and maintained a 30% credit
card utilization, which secures the credit profile to sustain a 760 to
800 FICO score. The estate must only be used for credit cards and
rental/lease agreements in place of using the SSN/ITIN but never for
mortgages or auto loans as an SSN/ITIN. Federal mortgages must
always utilize government-backed uncertificated securities such as
the SSN/ITIN. (Note: The estate EIN can utilize its credit to obtain
auto loans or leases but only in the form of a business application,
using the EIN format 12-3456789, not the SSN/ITIN format 123-45-
6789.)
To build corporate business credit using the same foreign estate
EIN, some additional steps are necessary. Upon completing the
fictitious business name statement or DBA, the first step is to draft
the Estate's articles of Unincorporated Business Association in the
fictitious business name such as FIRST NAME MIDDLE FAMILY OF
LAST NAME ESTATE and file it with the Secretary of State. Being
that Mr. Wellington is from California, he would use the California
Secretary of State's UA-100 Form to properly file his estate's
association using the Registrar's address as the business address, in
the same manner, provided on the I.R.S. EIN Online estate
application. This will prepare the business to file for a DUNS (Dun &
Bradstreet) number, an essential step to ensure the corporate
business profile is viewed as a legitimate company, leading to the
opening of an Unincorporated Business Association bank account.
Chase Bank, among others, is a great bank that offers this type of
business bank account with easy requirement instructions on their
website. When applying for a DUNS number, the business address,
mailing address, business phone number, and business email
address must be separate from the personal estate credit profile.
(Note: The business email address must not be generic such as
Hotmail or Gmail. Mail.com is an available option to satisfy this
requirement. 
For 
example, 
cwestate@accountant.com.) 
The
information previously used to obtain the estate number online with
the I.R.S. should be consistent with the DUNS application. It is
essential to select the correct SIC (Standard Industrial Classification)
or NAICS (North American Industrial Classification System). As a
final step, the corporate business estate should obtain a corporate
seal expressing its full corporate name and establishment date. The
seal is placed alongside any signatures approved by its President or
board members. To get a jump on building the credit immediately,
switch all personal utility accounts such as cell phone providers,
home internet, gas company, electric company, and water company,
from the personal SSN/ITIN name at home or rental unit to the
estate business, First Name Middle Name Family of Last Name
Estate.
Furthermore, signup with eCredable Business Solutions and link
all of the newly transferred utility accounts into the eCredable
Business Solutions profile. They will report the past 24 months of
payment history to the business credit bureaus, whereas the
individual companies would not. These accounts can be reported in
as little as 14 days up to 45 days, providing an instant business credit
score.
After successfully obtaining a DUNS number, it's time to obtain
vendor credit from commercial vendors that provide Net-30
payment terms to report to the major credit bureaus, such as Dun &
Bradstreet, Equifax, Experian Business, Transunion, Credit Safe,
SBFE, Ansonia, and NACM. These accounts must be paid within 30
to 60 days. The following vendors will provide instant corporate Net-
30 or Net-60 payment terms for new businesses, and it is advised to
regularly purchase items for the business.
Shirtsy
Crown Office Supplies
Creative Analytics
Uline
Grainger
Quill
Summa Office Supplies
Office Depot/OfficeMax
H.D. Supply
Strategic Network Solutions
NAV Business Boost – NAV is a credit monitoring system
that can provide all credit report information for the
corporate estate (Paydex Score) and the personal estate
(FICO Score) for $39.99/month as of 1st quarter 2021.
The payments are reported to all major business credit
bureaus as a tradeline.
The process of opening an Unincorporated Business Association
bank account in the name of the estate, as previously mentioned, will
require obtaining an additional EIN due to National Associations
(banks) can only do business with EIN's that have a responsible
party's social security number attached to the creation of the EIN for
insurance guarantee purposes. Another important reason to obtain
an additional EIN in the estate's name is bank rules and regulations.
If a potential account holder, such as Mr. Wellington, were to walk
into a bank to open an estate account using the foreign estate EIN
that he has established credit with, the bank manager wouldn't know
what to think of the situation. In the bank's eyes, an estate account
only applies to a descendant, and a third party or an executor would
open the account on behalf of the deceased. Even if Mr. Wellington
used a proxy or third party to open this type of account, the bank
would require a death certificate as proof of death, which is a dead-
end. Therefore, obtaining another EIN that does not have any
language within the I.R.S. CP-575 form such as, "the EIN will
identity your estate or trust," will be required to open a business
account in the name FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME FAMILY OF
LAST NAME ESTATE without raising any concern. This new EIN
would serve for bank purposes only. Mr. Wellington would apply the
following steps via the I.R.S. EIN Online:
1. Identity: Select "View Additional Types, Including Tax-
Exempt and Government Organization"
1. 
Identity: 
Select 
“Other 
Non-Profit/Tax-Exempt
Organizations”
1. Identity: Select “Banking Purposes”
2. Authenticate: Enter “Full Birth Name as the responsible
party with a social security number”
3. Address: Enter “a private mailing address”
4. 
Details: 
Enter 
“CHRISTOPHER 
ALEXANDER
WELLINGTON ESTATE” followed by the county and of
the place of business and month and year the original
estate number was obtained
4. Details: Enter “No for the five required questions”
4. Details: Select “Other”
4. Details: Again Select “Other and type Unincorporated
Business Association”
5. EIN Confirmation: Select “Receive Letter Online”
Once the I.R.S. has provided the EIN via the CP-575, Mr.
Wellington can then provide it with the Secretary of State stated
articles of association (Form UA-100), the county fictitious name
statement or DBA, and two forms of I.D. from the association's
Secretary to open the account at Chase bank or any other bank. The
fictitious name statement reveals to the bank that the account can
receive any payment in the name FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME
FAMILY OF LAST NAME ESTATE or FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME
LAST NAME. The bank will provide a debit card to the Secretary
with Mr. Wellington's full name to administrate everyday
transactions as he would a regular checking account. The sole
purpose is to avoid creating securities under the SSN/ITIN with the
banks. Whether debit or credit under an Unincorporated Business
Association EIN, all transactions can now account for business
expenses during the annual tax filing period using the foreign
Express Trust. The trust office will never owe a tax but instead
receive tribute under treaty law because the trust was forced to pay
sales tax and interest attached to the standard pricing of everyday
business expenses, which the trust is exempt from. Therefore, a
refundable payment on every accountable dollar is due to the
Express Trust. This is the ultimate tax-saving strategy that can take
place now rather than in retirement. After the bank account is
securely opened, Mr. Wellington or his Secretary can begin the
reclassification process, converting the newly obtained domestic
Unincorporated Association EIN to a foreign association under the
Express Trust 98 number using I.R.S. Form 8832, as previously
instructed. This business bank account should be the primary
account used by Mr. Wellington to embrace the new private banking
lifestyle that the Zero Percent tax bracket requires. All other accounts
in the birth name using the SSN/ITIN should be closed in good
standing.
Anyone in business who relies on business credit will advise that
it is crucial to never become late on any payment due with vendors or
credit card companies. Once the estate business credit profile has six
months of established Net-30 payments, a commercial fleet and
secured credit cards can be obtained. This will lead to high-limit
credit unsecured cards from American Express, Brex Credit Card,
Amazon, eBay, Ollo, Capital One, Paypal, Lowes, just to name a few.
The foreign estate EIN should be the lifeline to the user's estate for
all commercial purposes. The goal is to avoid creating SSN/ITIN
"public insurance" uncertificated securities through contracts. Being
a part of the Zero Percent tax bracket is a lifestyle change.
Again, the estate is to be used for business accounts to achieve a
Paydex Score and a personal "private" account achieving a FICO
score. If anyone ever needed to press the reset button in the world of
credit, this is the way to do it. Obtaining a mortgage should be the
only reason to maintain good credit on the SSN/ITIN credit profile,
which means only keeping "specific" installment accounts open and
avoiding credit cards, insurance accounts, bank accounts, auto loans,
and personal loans that induces interstate transactions. The
following installment accounts are a suggested source to keep open
on the SSN/ITIN credit profile for obtaining mortgage financing:
Credit Strong Savings/CD Account
Self Lender CD account
MyJewelers Account
Newcoast Direct
As of February 2021, two of the above-suggested accounts,
MyJewelers and Newcoast Direct, will report up to a $5,000
tradeline limit. Self Lender will provide a maximum of $1,663
Certificate of Deposit at $150 per month as a savings account. At the
end of the term, the user will receive their savings in the form of a
check. It is advised to reuse that money on auto-pay from the
Unincorporated Business Association account for the next new CD
term. Credit Strong will apply a maximum of $10,000 installment
account reported to the credit bureaus for $110 per month. Combine
these accounts to the SSN/ITIN credit profile for a total of $21,663
as installment credit to maintain good credit when the time comes to
obtain financing for a mortgage, which will be gifted from
CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER WELLINGTON (grantor) to HEINZ
WOLFGANG EXPRESS TRUST (grantee).
To ensure instant approval when filing a credit application, the
SSN/ITIN credit profile information must not cross-reference or mix
with the personal estate credit profile. Utilize the United States
Postal Office change of address and mail forwarding service, which
cost only one dollar. This will ensure that the SSN/ITIN profile
records the County Courthouse as the residence address, including a
separate mailing address. The personal estate profile has a record of
the County Registrar as the residence address with its own separate
mailing address. Lastly, the corporate business estate profile records
the selected iPostal1 address as its place of business and mailing
address. The SSN/ITIN credit profile place of residence would
include the birth county courthouse address; after all, this is the
origin of the ens legis creation, and the CAFR accounts were held. No
mail will come to this address because the new private mailbox will
be on file as the current mailing address (i.e., new iPostal1 account).
Ensure the SSN/ITIN credit profile has consistent credit application
information such as its phone number, email address (Hotmail,
Yahoo, or Gmail), place of employment, annual salary amount, U.S.
citizen, date of birth, and rent/mortgage amounts. Once all of the
information is obtained, list it within the listyourself.net database,
register the information with the three credit bureaus, and apply
with three auto dealers on three separate credit applications with the
exact information. Approval or denial does not matter in this case. If
approved, do not accept it, walk away informing that the credit union
may provide a better interest rate.
After 30 days have passed, the applicant should attempt to
remove all of the credit inquiries created by the auto dealerships by
contacting SageStream, LLC, and LexisNexis via mail or online to
place a security freeze on the SSN/ITIN credit report. This will
prevent any further consumer credit pulls without the consumer's
consent and easily allow invalid information to be removed,
including the previous three auto credit inquiries. Suppose the credit
bureaus are unable to validate the inquiries due to a credit freeze. In
that case, the requested items are then removed atop utilizing
section 604 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act (15 U.S. Code 1681b) as
a dispute to the credit bureaus.
The auto dealerships are the best choice for this method because
dealerships are notorious for running more than one permitted
credit pull to get the application approved that day. Some
dealerships will continue to pull credit with other lenders up to a
week later. The law that the dealerships break regularly is known as
impermissible credit pulls, to which they must have a permissible
purpose. A permissible purpose is established "following the written
instructions of the consumer to whom it relates." The institution
must obtain permission from the consumer, in writing, to obtain
their consumer report. In this case, the consumer's verbal consent is
not good enough even if documentation of such consent is
maintained. For instance, if a potential borrower applies for a auto
loan on December 21st, is it permitted that a financial institution
utilize said consumer's December 21st credit report for a HELOC
application on January 5th? The answer is no. Once an institution
establishes a permissible purpose to obtain a consumer's credit
report, it is suitable only for one application and no more, regardless
of the amount of time between subsequent applications for credit.
Once the credit report is frozen, submit a 604 letter to the credit
bureaus without a signature to prevent cross-matching credit
application signatures and watch the inquiries fall off the credit
report with an increased credit score. At this point, removing the
credit freeze is necessary to add the suggested installment accounts.
Keeping these three credit profiles separate will allow for easy
credit approvals while maintaining a private commercial lifestyle
without jeopardizing the national status. To recap, the requirements
to establish a "public insurance" SSN/ITIN credit profile for
mortgage approval (optional) only includes:
FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME
DOB
U.S. CITIZEN
SOCIAL SECURITY NUMBER OR ITIN
BIRTH COUNTY COURTHOUSE ADDRESS
iPOSTAL ONE MAILING ADDRESS
NEW HOTMAIL, AOL, GMAIL OR YAHOO EMAIL
ADDRESS
EMPLOYMENT INFO
ANNUAL SALARY
NEW PHONE NUMBER (GOOGLE NUMBER)
RENT/MORTGAGE AMOUNT
REGISTER WITH LISTYOURSELF.NET
UDPATE CHANGE OF ADDRESS WITH U.S.P.S
ESTABLISH INSTALLMENT CREDIT ACCOUNTS
To establish a corporate business credit profile includes:
FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME FAMILY OF LAST NAME
ESTATE d/b/a FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST
NAME ESTATE
ESTATE EIN
UNINCORPORATED ASSOCIATION EIN – BANKING
PURPOSES
DUNS NUMBER
UNINCORPORATED 
BUSINESS 
ASSOCIATION
ARTICLES OF ORGANIZATION
MAIL.COM PROFESSIONAL EMAILING ADDRESS
CORPORATE BUSINESS PHONE NUMBER
CORPORATE BUSINESS ADDRESS
iPOSTAL ONE BUSINESS MAILING ADDRESS
BUSINESS SERVICES OR REAL ESTATE/PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT
REGISTER WITH LISTYOURSELF.NET
CORPORATE ESTATE SEAL
ESTABLISH 
VENDOR 
CREDIT, 
CREDIT 
CARDS,
BUSINESS AUTO LOANS AND LEASES
And lastly, to establish a “private” personal credit profile
includes:
FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME
DOB
U.S. CITIZEN
ESTATE EIN IN LIEU OF SSN/ITIN
BIRTH COUNTY REGISTRAR ADDRESS
iPOSTAL ONE MAILING ADDRESS
NEW HOTMAIL, AOL, GMAIL OR YAHOO EMAIL
ADDRESS
SELF-EMPLOYED INFO
ANNUAL SALARY
NEW PHONE NUMBER
RENT/MORTGAGE AMOUNT
REGISTER WITH LISTYOURSELF.NET
ESTABLISH 
SECURED 
CREDIT 
CARDS,
RENTAL/LEASE PROPERTY
Of course, maintaining a healthy SSN/ITIN credit profile to
obtain a mortgage is a choice and not the only way to obtain
property. One could take over a borrower's property who may be in
distress and cannot afford to continue their mortgage payments by
way of "subject to," which uses a quitclaim deed, avoiding any
mortgage credit application. There is also obtaining property
through private lenders, also known as hard money lenders. The
interest rates are slightly higher than public FHA (3.5%) or USDA
(0%), and the deposits are usually not less than 20%. However, the
obligation is never reported to the credit profile. It is a private
transaction, and the credit report is only pulled to determine
payment credibility.
As mentioned before, a large portion of millionaires in the world
have earned their profits from real estate, and it's time to reveal its
trade secrets that will provide a massive return on investment. This
trade secret is known as Seller Financing, and it is a tool that has
been used for centuries around the world. Seller financing is a sale
made where any part of the sales price becomes a note back to the
seller. In real estate, owners have a note, a mortgage, or deed of trust
instrument depending on the property's whereabouts. Some states
are mortgage states, and others are trust states. The note is the debt
instrument containing the amount, interest, payment, and term. The
document requires a guarantee by most lenders, and it is the
document responsible for litigating in pursuit of collections. The
mortgage or deed of trust documents is used to attach the note to the
house as collateral. There are many advantages to utilizing seller
finance strategies. Lowering closing costs on both sides of the
transaction, lower interest rates, lower payments, no credit reports,
no banks, reliable flexibility, no negative cash flow, no personal
liability when using trusts, eliminates the due-on-sale clause or
balloon notes when buying, provides quick closings, eliminates
seller's and seller's attorney's anxiety regarding selling subject to,
allows the investor to create almost instant profits and huge monthly
cash flows very quickly. It also provides the seller a provable income
stream to wash out their debt payment to qualify for another loan
and, most of all, no maintenance, taxes, insurance, or vacancies
when sold.
A big question in real estate when using Seller Financing is how
to avoid the "due-on-sale clause" when transferring title from one
owner to another. A bank cannot stop a seller from selling with
owner financing. However, they can call the loan due because it will
trigger the due-on-sale clause, and this vital fact should always be
disclosed with the seller. However, transferring a title into an entity
such as an Irrevocable Express Trust with a foreign owner (a foreign
national trustee) would not trigger the due-on-sale clause. Using an
Irrevocable Foreign Express Trust would exempt the trust from
property taxes indefinitely. This strategy would be best only when
deciding to keep the property from generation to generation. Should
the investor plan to take over the property intending to sell the
property for a profit, then a Revocable Land Trust would be
necessary, significantly reducing or exempting the property from
county taxes. The Garn-St. Germain Depository Institutions Act of
1982 (Public Law 97-320, H.R. 6267) allowed a significant consumer
change regarding the title. The act granted anyone to place real
estate in their trust without alerting the due-on-sale clause, allowing
lenders to foreclose on a current loan upon transfer to another. This
greatly facilitates the use of a trust to pass property to heirs and
minors and protects wealthy owners' property against a possible
future lawsuit from creditors because the trust owns the property,
not the individual beneficiaries at risk. Investors use Revocable Land
Trust to quickly obtain property from distressed sellers or sellers
looking for another way to sell, taking on the existing payments. It is
unlikely that the banks will call the loan due if payments continue to
be received, and there is a way to cash out or pay off the loan if
necessary, even if the investor sells on installments.
One of the best and secure seller finance strategies widely used
amongst investors is a Wrap or Wrap-Around Mortgage. It is merely
one loan that encompasses another loan or loans of smaller value.
Here is a typical example:
The investor buys a house and takes over a $140,000 first
mortgage and a $20,000-second mortgage for $160,000. In the
world of seller financing, the value of the house is determined by
what the buyer is willing to pay. Now the investor sells the house for
$180,000 with a $20,000 (non-refundable) down payment and
takes a mortgage, land contract, or AITD (All-Inclusive Trust Deed)
for $160,000. See Table 1.
Table 1.
Note to Inv.
$160,000 10% - 30
yrs $1,447.27 monthly income
Existing 1st
$140,000 7% - 30 yrs -
$987.78 monthly outgo
Existing 2nd
$20,000 9% - 15 yrs
- $221.44 monthly outgo
$238.05 Net
The $160,000 note wraps around the $140,000 and the
$20,000. The total debt is $160,000. In this case, the investor has no
equity in the note. The principal would collect $1,447.27 and payout
the first note payment of $987.78 and the second note payment of
$221.44 and keep the difference. When paid off, the investor must
pay off the $160,000 to clear the title. So, why sell on a wrap with no
equity? Well, first, to make sure the underlying note gets paid.
Second, to receive $238.05 per month cash flow and three possible
defaults of buyer and forfeiture of $20,000 down payment.
There are multiple ways to sell using Seller Financing. One way is
via Long Term on a free and clear house, meaning no encumbrances
or mortgages on the title. Suppose the seller calls the investor with a
house worth $140,000 in good condition. The seller is asking
$140,000, with no loan, and after prescreening, the investor finds
that the seller would be willing to seller finance with a 10% down
payment ($14,000). That would leave a balance of $126,000
Mortgage, Land Contract, or Deed of Trust to the seller at the
requested rate of 6% for 30 years with a 10-year balloon. In real
estate, it is always wise to counter offer for a potential discount so
that the investor may look forward to a fair return (profit) on
investment. Offering a purchase price of $126,000 with $4,000 as
the down payment, leaving a balance of $122,000 at 5%, 30 years,
and 10-year balloon, with a payment of $721 principal and interest
with the first payment due in 3 months, no due-on-sale clause. Once
the deal is accepted, the principal, the investor, take advantage of
their equitable interest and sells the property for $149,900 with no
less than a $20,000 down payment from their end-buyer. This would
leave a remaining balance of $129,900 Deed of Trust, Wraparound
Mortgage, or Land Contract to the investor at 9.9% for 30 years with
a 5-year balloon. A principal and interest monthly payment of $1,197
would be rewarded. Structuring the deal in this matter would
provide the following:
$16,000 profit on down payment ($20,000 from the end-
buyer less $4,000 to the initial seller), plus two months
income of $1,197 with no payment,
$476 per month on payment spread ($1,197 incoming less
$721 outgoing),
$7,900 minimum on the back end of the sale ($129,900
owed to the investor less $122,000 the investor owes the
initial seller). Profit increases each month because the
incoming debt pays off slower than the outgoing due to
the difference in interest rates,
? Discount when the principal is ready to pay off the initial
seller due to their end-buyer refinancing or selling,
When possible, closing the sale the same day of purchase
Another possible deal structure would be a strategy known as
Subject To Plus, a Second To the Seller. A seller calls the investor
with a house in good condition worth for $130,000. There is a due-
on-sale loan for $61,000 with a payment of $699.40 per month,
including taxes and insurance. The seller is asking $130,000 cash for
the house. Upon prescreening, the investor learns he would consider
carrying a second for his equity if he gets a $13,000 down payment.
It would provide the seller with a $56,000 equity payout as a second
mortgage. Instead, the investor offers a $110,000 purchase price
with an $8,000 down payment, and they take over the existing due-
on-sale loan of $61,000 via subject to and the payment of $699.40
P.I.T.I. ($500 principal and interest + $199.40 taxes and insurance).
The remaining balance of $41,000 would be a second mortgage to
the seller at 5% for 30 years with a 10-year balloon. Payment of
$227.67 beginning in 3 months and a total outgoing payment of
$927.07 P.I.T.I. ($699.40 + $227.67 = $927.07). Now, here is the
interesting part. The investor sells the house at $139,900 with a
minimum down payment of $15,000, which leaves a remaining
balance of $124,900 Land Contract, Trust Deed of Wraparound
Mortgage 9.9% with a 5-year balloon. The object payment would
come to $1,177.07 P.I.T.I. ($977.67 P&I + 199.40 taxes and
insurance). Structuring a deal in this matter would provide the
following:
$7,000 instant profit from the down payment spread plus
a two-month income of $1,177.07 with no payment due.
Monthly payment spread
$22,900 when the investor’s end-buyer pays off the loan
($124,900 - $41,000 - $61,000).
? Large discount possibility.
When possible, close the sale on the same day.
The main objective is to target specific properties. Beautiful
houses in significant areas at the median price or above would be
ideal. Low-priced properties attract buyers with no money and incur
large default rates. Any property where the seller will agree to wait
for their money or equity until the investor is cashed out from their
end-buyer or accept payments is a high prospect property. Targeting
ugly properties with a lot of equity, the investor can raise cash on
their house is ideal as well. Conducting business with little to no risk
with the best houses in the best areas would promote:
Better quality tenants and end-buyers.
Great houses in significant areas, meaning no junk.
The investor as the principal would make much more
profit on all income streams:
More significant down payments due to higher valued
houses
Bigger monthly spreads
Larger back end payouts. High value makes it easier to
negotiate bigger spreads.
If the investors sell with owner financing, there's less chance an
end-buyer will default because they're in a higher income bracket
and have more money or equity at risk. Buying with seller financing,
the principal can create larger payouts by discounting the note later.
The tools utilized to engage in selling with owner financing are a
Wraparound Mortgage, Land Contract, Land Installment Contract,
Agreement for Deed, Contract for Deed, Bond for Deed, Deed of
Trust, or All Inclusive Trust Deed (AITD). The Wrap is an all-
inclusive loan encompassing underlying financing, collecting a larger
payment from the end-buyer than what is paid out to the lender.
Seller deeds to the buyer and takes back a note and mortgage. It
must be prepared by a professional and will vary from state to state.
The Contracts and Agreements are all terms that mean the same
thing, but the name will vary from state to state. As mentioned
before, the word State is synonymous with the country. Every
country has its own rules. The contracts and agreements serve the
same purpose as a wraparound, but the deed remains with the seller
until paid. The buyer acquires equitable interest in the property,
which is a straightforward process. It's no more complicated than
completing a Purchase and Sales Agreement. A Deed of Trust is a
contract by which the property title is conveyed to a trustee for a
loan's repayment, usually a non-related entity. This contract involves
two remaining parties. The trustor is the owner who borrows from
the lender and the beneficiary as the lender. This document should
always be prepared by a professional and varies from country to
country in America's united States. Having a knowledgeable CPA and
real estate attorney to draft all documentation to be recorded inside
the county recorders office where the property is located is always
recommended. No deal should go without legal counsel.
Seller Financing is but just one method savvy real estate
investors use. There are seven more ways to profit quickly in real
estate. In addition to seller financing, the second method would be
wholesaling. It is a business of locating houses, usually needing
repairs, at bargain prices and quickly passing them to bargain
hunters well below retail for an all-cash deal transaction. The third
method is retailing. This form of business of locating houses at
bargain prices, usually rehabbing them and selling to the end buyer
for all cash at the top of the market with new financing terms. The
fourth method is getting ownership. The business of owning pretty
houses in beautiful neighborhoods by taking over existing debt
"subject to" or creating seller carry back financing or combining the
two. The fifth method is what is known as lease options. It takes
control of a property by leasing it from the seller and retaining the
option to purchase at an agreed-upon price and terms. It also
provides the rights to sub-lease the property to a potential
tenant/buyer, giving them the right to purchase from the investor. A
sixth method is an option, which is an agreement the investor may
buy without the right to sublease. And the final method is known as
ACTS. It is an acronym for Assigning Contracts with Terms System
to a new buyer or tenant-buyer. The great Ron LeGrand invented the
ACTS system and is mostly applied to overleveraged houses, allowing
investors to do transactions on properties where most would turn
down the deal. For example, a house in good condition is valued at
$200,000 with a loan of $220,000 and a monthly payment of $1,650
with 27 years left. The investor agrees to lease purchase for the entire
loan balance of $220,000 with a lease payment equal to the seller's
mortgage payment of $1,650, which begins when a tenant/buyer is
located to assign the investor's contract. Once the tenant/buyer is
located, the investor assigns their contract with the initial seller's
approval and collects a $10,000 assignment fee. This deal structure
lets the investor never buy the house, no closing cost, no money
needed, no risk, no costly attachments, and the investor can do two
to four or more per month.
In another type of transaction, such as a Sand-which Lease
Purchase or Subject To, the investor would buy a house from the
seller with the same value of $200,000 with a $0 down payment and
loan in the amount of $180,000 with a monthly payment of $1,382.
The investor sells to the end-buyer at $219,000 and collects a
$20,000 non-refundable down payment, leaving the buyer with a
balance of $199,000, contributing a $1,800 first month payment to
the investor. $20,000 was collected in just a few days plus the
investor will make $418 per month ($1,800 - $1,382 = $418) for
years to come. Once tenant/buyer cashes out, they keep all the cash
above the loan payoff. Here is a ten year Profit Recap:
$20,000 Original Down Payment
$1,800 First Month Payment Received
$50,160 Monthly Cash Flow (10 years)
$35,000 Estimated back end cash above loan payoff
That's approximately $106,960 net profit on a property that the
investor got for free using no money, no credit, no risk, no repairs,
no banks, no realtors, and no short sales. Even better, 100% of the
responsibility, including repairs, is passed on to the buyer, including
taxes and insurance, finalized in escrow. The privilege of
homeownership is automatically given to the tenant/buyer.
Therefore, no maintenance cost would come from the investor.
Many wealthy families or several nationalities utilize these real
estate techniques to always stay above the water during any
depression or financial-economic crisis. Becoming a landlord will
always provide a stream of revenue as people will always need a roof
over their heads. One important thing that families care about in
banking is always having on hand strong financial statements if they
may need to apply for credit to access capital, with the attempt to use
good debt to make a profit. These families bond together and share
their income, rotating each monthly income into each member's
bank account as a legitimate deposit. At the end of the month, each
member's income would be routed back to them. For instance,
looking at a family of four:
Father earns $15,000 per month
Mother earns $15,000 per month
First Son earns $5,000 per month
Second Son earns $7,000 per month
Each family member would have their monthly earnings
deposited into each other's Unincorporated Business Association
bank account at least once per month consistently, giving each
member approximately $42,000 of monthly income.
This same family would also take advantage of another strategy
that banks and top-tier corporations have used for over a century.
This method is known as a High Cash Value Whole Life Insurance
Policy, which builds generational wealth safely and allows the family
to have their economy. Another term for this type of wealth-building
strategy is Infinite Banking, which has five fundamental principles.
The first principle is safety. Markets are extremely volatile in the
world of the Fractional Reserve banking system. A volatile market
only promotes unpredictability. Everyone thinks that the markets
will go up forever, and then out of nowhere, all savings, all equity, all
foreseeable profits are lost in the blink of an eye. In 2008, 2.1 Trillion
Dollars vanished in about the same time it takes for one to brush
their teeth in the morning. Many stock traders have a saying such as,
"The market has a way of proving the most number of people
wrong!" It's all terrifying not knowing what will happen to all of the
money backed by hard-earned labor. Many people had to put their
retirement on hold due to the events of 2008, and it seems like it will
happen again due to this Global Economic Pandemic. Well, with a
High Cash Value Policy, it doesn't have to be that way. Strong
insurance companies have been through every economic cycle
without experiencing a loss and have protected many of their
policyholders through good and bad times, such as the Great
Depression. Almost all National Associations and Credit Unions have
poured their capital into High Cash Value Policies. They call it BOLI,
Bank Owned Life Insurance, and for the banks, those policies are put
on the books as tier one assets, being the safest assets, the board
members and its owners have fewer concerns. As mentioned before,
banks take the deposits of account holders and invest in the U.S.
Stock Market and the Foreign Exchange Market. Still, most of it goes
into their High Cash Value Policies to protect the money from a
volatile, unpredictable market. If it's suitable for the banks, then it's
good for anyone to take advantage of.
The second principle is that a High Cash Value Policy offers a
tax-free growth opportunity. Pair this strategy with an Irrevocable
Foreign Express Trust – identified by the EIN 98 Prefix Number, as
the policy's beneficial owner and the assets are 100% tax-free on
every dollar. The money would be tax-free on income while living
and even after death in the hands of the beneficiary(s).
The third principle is there is an unlimited opportunity to access
capital. People will always need to access capital, and with this type
of High Cash Value Policy, there is always access to cash without the
need to apply for a loan.
The fourth principle is the most often overlooked aspect. The
most fantastic benefit of a High Cash Value Policy is income at
retirement, should the policyholder choose to stop commerce
engagement. At some point, retirement will be the subject matter as
people move into another phase of their lives. Going from an
accumulation plan to an income plan is very viable. It used to be a
fact where career employees received a pension when they retired
and would have income for life, and now pension plans have been
replaced by the 401k, which means the risk is all on the employee
due to 401k's are at the risk of the market. After all, the fees are
deducted, and taxes are paid, a retiree can't help but wonder if it was
worth it at all. The best retirement is safe money, tax-free and
predictable.
Last but not least, the fifth principle is all about leaving a legacy.
Nationals who are a part of the Zero Percent tax bracket care about
leaving an inheritance for the next generation. The inheritance must
be protected in trust irrevocably with instructions and plans that will
last for centuries. One of the biggest advantages of having a death
benefit inside the High Cash Value Policy is that the policyholder can
spend down other buckets of assets while living, knowing that the
buckets will be replenished at death.
Policy loans can also be taken against the policy's death benefit
from its cash value account. Taking a look at a case study to use a
High Cash Value Policy to eliminate credit card debt of $30,000 with
an interest rate of 11%-28% and $300 per month. For this strategy to
work, the policy cash value must be established first, meaning the
policyholder must have some time invested to pay into their
premium threshold. As mentioned in the third principle, the cash
value may be accessed anytime, and loaning from the cash value to
pay off the credit card debt, is similar to using a Line of Credit
against the homeowner's property. Even though a homeowner takes
out an equity line of credit, the home's value continues to rise
annually, anywhere from 5%-7%; the actual policy operates in the
same manner. It is important to remember that borrowed money
from the cash value account will remain at work for the policyholder
as if it never left the policy. This is because of the dividends paid to
the policyholder annually from the insurance company, and for this
reason alone, infinite banking is the best banking tool known to man.
A loan of $30,000 against the policy is used to pay off the credit card
debt, and the regular $300 per month credit card payment would be
used to pay back the policy loan balance, rather than spending the
$300 monthly cash flow. Some key advantages to this strategy are:
Consolidate High-Interest Debt
Policy Loan Interest Rate is more favorable than Credit
Cards (5%-6% Simple Interest)
The repayment schedule is in the policyholder's control
Repayments are optional; recommended but optional
One disadvantage to this strategy is that if the policy loan never
receives a single payment, the balance will compound the life
insurance policy. The results are not necessarily a "problem" in all
cases but a fact to be made known, as it will negatively impact the
policyholder's Cash Value & Death Benefit Growth. See Table 1.
Table 1.
Year
Age
Annual Outlay
Cash Value
Death Benefit
1
31
$10,000
$8,568
$464,104
2
32
$10,000
$17,570
$502,587
3
33
$10,000
$27,908
$540,454
4
34
$10,000
$38,939
$577,707
5
35
$10,000
$50,544
$614,363
6
36
$10,000
$62,748
$650,472
7
37
$10,000
$75,575
$685,045
8
38
$10,000
$89,058
$721,141
9
39
$10,000
$103,222
$755,760
10
40
$10,000
$118,101
$789,966
11
41
$10,000
$133,734
$823,772
12
42
$10,000
$150,158
$857,260
13
43
$10,000
$167,420
$890,479
14
44
$10,000
$185,546
$923,526
15
45
$10,000
$204,583
$956,383
16
46
$10,000
$224,554
$983,209
17
47
$10,000
$245,594
$1,022,021
Table 1, displays the policyholder at age 31, paying roughly $834
per month for a total of $10,000 per year into his High Cash Value
Policy. In the first year of contribution, there is $8,568 as immediate
cash to take out as a line of credit. At the beginning of year 5, the
cash value breaks even at $38,939 and the policyholder is now ready
to take out a policy loan to pay the credit card debt. See Table 2.
Table 2.
Yea
r
Outlay
Loan
Interest
Repay
Bal
Cash
Value
Death
Benefit
1
$10k
$0
$0
$0
$0
$8.5k
$464k
2
$10k
$0
$0
$0
$0
$17k
$502k
3
$10k
$0
$0
$0
$0
$27k
$543k
4
$10k
$0
$0
$0
$0
$38k
$577k
5
$10k
$30k
$0
$0
$30k
$19k
$584k
6
$10k
$0
$1.5k
$3.6k
$27k
$33k
$622k
7
$10k
$0
$1.3k
$3.6k
$25k
$48k
$660k
8
$10k
$0
$1.2k
$3.6k
$23k
$64k
$697k
9
$10k
$0
$1.1k
$3.6k
$20k
$81k
$734k
10
$10k
$0
$1k
$3.6k
$18k
$98k
$771k
11
$10k
$0
$920
$3.6k
$15k
$117k
$808k
12
$10k
$0
$786
$3.6k
$12k
$135k
$844k
13
$10k
$0
$645
$3.6k
$9k
$156k
$880k
14
$10k
$0
$497
$3.6k
$6k
$178k
$916k
15
$10k
$0
$342
$3.6k
$3.5k
$200k
$952k
16
$10k
$0
$179
$3.6k
$166
$224k
$989k
17
$10k
$0
$8
$174
$0
$245k
$1.02M
18
$10k
$0
$0
$0
$0
$267k
$1.05M
The impact of borrowing on the policy by comparing both tables'
death benefits at the end of year four provides an astonishing
revelation. Table 1 displays a cash value of $38,939 with a death
benefit of $577,707. Table 2 displays the same cash value until year
five when the $30,000 loan is withdrawn, leaving a cash value of
$19,044. The ending result is a dollar-for-dollar reduction in cash
value and death benefit, from $614,363 to $584,363. The policy loan
is paid back with the same $300 per month credit card payment at
$3,600 per year, which takes twelve years to complete. The loan
policy's interest does not go toward the cash value or death benefit
but the actual insurance company itself. The advantage to the
policyholder is that the loan is paid off in year seventeen. The cash
value would be at $245,594, precisely the same cash value amount in
year seventeen if no policy loan was ever taken against the policy.
In a worst-case scenario, suppose the policyholder takes out a
$30,000 loan to pay off the credit card debt. However, for some
unforeseen reason, life happens, and the borrower cannot repay the
loan but can still contribute to the $10,000 per year premium. With
a $30,000 policy loan, taken out in year five and is never paid back,
the balance would reach $62,368 due to compound interest in year
20. At year 20, there would be $315,907 in cash value and
$1,120,438 in death benefit without a policy loan, compared to a
policy loan resulting in $250,421 cash value and $1,058,070 death
benefit. A $65,000 difference due to the 5%-6% dividends paid out
by the insurance company to the policy allowing the cash value and
death benefit to grow exponentially while ignoring the policy loan. A
High Cash Value Policy replaces the need for any bank loan or
interest-bearing vehicle altogether. The policy provides access to
capital for debt consolidation or investing any time, ultimate savings,
a life insurance policy with high dividends, which is highly beneficial.
T
CHAPTER SEVEN
Nationality
he term "national" means a person owing permanent allegiance to
a state according to Title 8, Chapter 12 – Immigration and
Nationality U.S.C. subsection 1101(a)(21). To reach the Zero Percent
tax bracket, a person must realize that they cannot be anything other
than a national listed in the government's system. The terms
American Indian, Black, Negro or African American, White or
Caucasian, Pacific Islander, Hispanic or Latino, etc., cannot be used
with a national's listing. Every State has codified in their libraries the
slave laws. Taking a look at Georgia's Slave Laws, titled, "A
Codification of the Statute Law of Georgia, including the English
Statutes of Force: In Four Parts; compiled, digested and arranged by
William A. Hotchkiss, by the authority of the legislature," states,
46. Jurisdiction of inferior court. – The inferior courts of the
several counties of this State shall have jurisdiction of the several
offences created or mentioned by this act, in all cases in which,
by the constitution of the State, jurisdiction may be entertained
by them.
47. Exceptions in favour of aborigines, Moors, and Hindoos. –
The provisions, prohibitions, and penalties of this act shall not
extend to any American Indian, free Moor, or Lascar; but the
burden of proof, in all cases of arrest of any person of color, shall
be on such person of color, to show him or herself exempt from
the operations of this act.
(CHAP. XXXIII. FREE PERSONS OF COLOR.; Art. II.
Disabilities of Free Persons of Color)
Many people believe American Indian is the right nationality to
assume. Still, as Georgia's slave laws just mentioned, anyone using
that term does not have any rights in the inferior courts such as
county superior courts except Aboriginals, Moors Hindoos. Any
other term is just a franchise classification used by the United States
to financially and legally control its citizens. Again, the fourteenth
amendment to the Constitution allegedly claims to have been ratified
on July 9, 1868, granting citizenship to all persons born or
naturalized in the United States, which included former slaves
recently freed. How is this possible? If in 1866, everyone, regardless
of skin color, was already free and actual citizens of the united States
of America in Congress Assembled. The Civil Rights Act of 1866
explains that everyone held citizenship within the republic
confederacy and is, in fact, the written legislation that encouraged
the fourteenth amendment, in association with the Organic Act of
1871.
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled, That all
persons born in the United States and not subject to any foreign
power, excluding Indians not taxed, are hereby declared to be
citizens of the United States; and such citizens, of every race and
color, without regard to any previous condition of slavery or
involuntary servitude,
(Thirty-Ninth Congress, Session I. Ch. 31, April 9, 1866, Chap.
XXXI. – An Act to protect all Persons in the United States in
their Civil Rights, and furnish the Means of their Vindication.)
The first document a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, State Citizen, or
Legal Permanent Resident could file to correct their commercial
status with the federal government is the Unites States Passport
Application, known as the DS-11. In Chapter Two, the Acts or
Conditions were explained in detail. It requires a supplementary
explanatory statement under oath (or affirmation) from the
applicant should be attached and made a part of the application. An
affidavit stating the affiant's nationality must be attached to the
application before it is delivered to a passport agent. In all actuality,
the Department of Secretary of State website at travel.state.gov
provides concise instructions on how to complete the application as a
national correctly. The government cannot force U.S. citizenship on
anyone, owing taxes. They will always provide a way for equity if one
has eyes to see and ears to hear. According to the Secretary of State
of the District of Columbia, the Department of State occasionally
receives requests for certificates of non-citizen national status
according to Section 341(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act
(I.N.A.), 8 U.S.C. 1452(b). As defined by the I.N.A., all U.S. citizens
are U.S. nationals, but only a relatively small number of persons
acquire U.S. nationality without becoming U.S. citizens. Section
101(a) (21) of the I.N.A. defines the term "national" as "a person
owing permanent allegiance to a state." Section 101(a)(22) of the
I.N.A. provides that the term "national of the United States" includes
all U.S. citizens as well as persons who, though not citizens of the
United States, owe permanent allegiance to the United States (non-
citizen nationals). As the Department has received few requests,
there is no justification for creating a non-citizen national certificate.
Designing a separate document that includes an anti-fraud
mechanism was seen as an inefficient expenditure of resources.
Therefore, the Department determined that those who would be
eligible to apply for such a certificate may instead apply for a United
States passport that would delineate and certify their status as a
national but not a citizen of the United States.
If a person believes he or she is eligible under the law as a non-
citizen national of the United States and the person complies
with the provisions of section 341(b) of the I.N.A., Title 8 U.S.C.
1452(b), he/she may apply for a passport at any Passport Agency
in the United States…When applying, applicants must execute a
Form DS-11 and show documentary proof of their non-citizen
national status as well as their identity.
(b) A person who claims to be a national but not a citizen of the
United States may apply to the Secretary of State for a certificate
of non-citizen national status. Upon – (1) proof to the
satisfaction of the Secretary of State that the applicant is a
national, but not a citizen, of the United States; and, (2) in the
case of a non-citizen national born outside of the United States of
its outlying possessions, taking and subscribing, before an
immigration officer within the United States or its outlying
possessions, to the oath of allegiance required of an applicant for
naturalization.
(Section 341(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act)
The Department of State is very precise with the procedure of
being classified as a national. Applicants are applying for a certificate
of non-citizen national status via form DS-11 and in return will
receive a United States of America Passport, listed as a "National but
Not a Citizen of the United States." A national of the United States
and a citizen of the United States are the same per Title 8 U.S.C. §
1101, Section (a)22. It is not to be mistaken with a national but not a
citizen of the United States. The wordplay can be very deceiving if
not careful. Section 341(b) requires that the applicant, mostly foreign
nationals from other countries who may be visiting on a six-month
stay using a VISA, must prove that they're indeed a national and
declare their allegiance to a state via affidavit before an immigration
officer for naturalization. This is one of the main benefits an
Irrevocable Foreign Express Trust is registered with the probate
court, superior court, or county recorder's office. Inside the Schedule
of Minutes, the Settlor can declare its allegiance held by the trustee
and recorded with the Clerk of Court. The term "clerk of court"
means a naturalization court clerk, an oath swearing officer identical
to an immigration officer. Once the Express Trust and its minutes
are recorded, the Settlor/Applicant has proof to satisfy the Secretary
of State of its lawful requirements to apply for the U.S. Passport and
receive its certificate of non-citizen national status without the need
to receive a "green card." The Schedule of Minutes would also serve
as the Supplemental Explanatory Statements as stated in the Acts or
Conditions section of the DS-11. The Department of State reveals that
no one is a U.S. citizen by birth but only through ignorance and
misapplied information. Section 308 of the Immigration and
Nationality Act states,
Unless otherwise provided in section 301 of this title, the
following shall be" nationals, but not citizens of the United States
at birth:"
(2) A person born outside the United States and its outlying
possessions of parents both of whom are nationals, but not
citizens, of the United States, and have had a residence in the
United States, or one of its outlying possessions prior to the birth
of such person;
The oath that the applicant must declare inside the Schedule of
Minutes recorded with the Clerk of Court is found in Section 302 of
Public Law 94-241, which pertains to any existing alleged U.S. citizen
seeking to correct their status. It reads,
Any person who becomes a citizen of the United States solely by
virtue of the provisions in Section 301 may within six months
after the effective date of that Section or within six months after
reaching the age of 18 years, whichever date is later, become a
national but not a citizen of the United States by making a
declaration under oath before any court established by the
Constitution or laws of the United States or any other court of
record in the Commonwealth in the form as follows, "I being duly
sworn, hereby declare my intention to be a national but not a
citizen of the United States."
When applying for a certificate of non-citizen national status, it is
wise to apply for both the Passport Card and Passport Book. As laws
in the United States become even more strenuous regarding Real
I.D., having a passport card would resolve the need for a Real I.D.
altogether. As a national, one will be able to travel anywhere within
the United States of America, as well as having the ability to operate
an automobile and have access to federal buildings without having to
elect that one is a U.S. citizen within the Department of Motor
Vehicles, using a State I.D. or Driver's License. Here is how to
complete the entire DS-11 as a national but not a citizen of the United
States:
(Note: The exact punctuation must be used, including
information within brackets.)
Page 1 of 2
Box 1: Name Last – smith
Name First – john
Name Middle – doe
Box 2: Date of Birth – 09 | 11 | 2001
Box 3: Sex – M
Box 4: Place of Birth – pasadena california united states of
america
Box 4: Place of Birth (if born in another country) – municipality
of medellin, republic of colombia
Box 5: Social Security Number (SSN or ITIN) – 123-45-6789.
(Note: Even though the social security number is the number
attached to the ens egis, also known as a commercial avatar to do
business in a fictitious system, the Department of State needs the
number to update the U.S. citizens' status to a national successfully.
Box 5: Social Security Number (Note: if born outside the U.S.
and the applicant never received an SSN/ITIN enter 9 zeros)
Box 6: E-mail – provide any e-mail to received notifications for
approval or rejection of the application
Box 7: Primary Phone Number – enter a valid phone number if
the Department of State needs to verify any information quickly.
Box 8: Mailing Address line 1 – in care of [1234] main street apt
777
Box 8: City – los angeles
Box 8: State – [ca]
Box 8: Zip Code – [00000]
Box 8: Country – [california usa]
Box 9: If any other names are used, such as maiden, previous
marriage, or legal name change, provide here in all lower case.
STOP! CONTINUE TO PAGE 2
Page 2 of 2
Name of Applicant (Last, First & Middle) – smith, john doe
Date of Birth – 09 | 11 | 2001
Box 10: Parental Information (Mother: First & Middle) – jane
susan
Box 10: Last Name (Mother at Birth) – robinson
Box 10: Date of Birth (Mother) – 03 | 01 | 1952
Box 10: Place of Birth (Mother; if born within the U.S.A.) –
arkansas united states of america
Box 10: Place of Birth (Mother; if born outside the U.S.A. or
outlying possessions) – bogota, republic of colombia
Box 10: Sex – F
Box 10: U.S. citizen? – Always Check No
Box 10: Parental Information (Father: First & Middle) – jack
white
Box 10: Last Name (Father at Birth) – smith
Box 10: Date of Birth (Father) – 07 | 15 | 1949
Box 10: Place of Birth (Father; if born within the U.S.A.) – south
dakota united states of america
Box 10: Place of Birth (Father; if born outside the U.S.A. or
outlying possessions) – bogota, republic of colombia
Box 10: Sex – M
Box 10: U.S. citizen? – Always Check No
Box 11: If the applicant has ever been married, check yes and
provide the spouse information always in lower case and check No to
U.S. citizen.
Box 12: Skip
Box 13: Occupation – minister
Box 14: Employer or School – god (Elohim)
Box 15: Skip
Box 16: Skip
Box 17: Skip
Box 18: Skip
Box 19: Permanent Address [Per U.C.C. § 9-307. Location of
Debtor (b)(1) A debtor who is an individual is located at the
individual's principal residence; therefore, entering an address
within the Internal Revenue District, such as house number, street
name, and zip code, will re-enter the applicant back into the
jurisdiction of the United States as a U.S. citizen again. Enter the
address as Rural Free Delivery, a service that began in the United
States in the late 19th century to deliver mail directly to rural farm
families. Before the seven types of land use were established as
residential, institutional, industrial, road greenbelt, roadside, park,
and forest, it was known as rural farmland.] – in care of rural free
delivery; NO APT/UNIT
Box 19: City – los angeles
Box 19: State – [ca]
Box 19: Zip Code – [00000]
Box 19: (Note: If the applicant is not from this country, the
address must be a rural free delivery address within the united states
of america to meet the requirement of INA 341(b)).
Box 20: Emergency Contact – enter the name of anyone within
close contact, proving full name, phone, relation, and address in all
lower case spelling with street number, State, and zip code in
brackets. The zip should be all zeros as well.
Box 21. Have you ever applied for a U.S. Passport Book or
Passport Card? – If yes, provide the full name in all lower case and
the book or card or both numbers, including its issued date.
Referring back to page 1 of 2 – STOP! CONTINUE TO PAGE 2
section; the passport agent will complete this Section on behalf of the
applicant upon receiving the satisfaction of identity, any State I.D.,
current valid U.S. Passport, Birth Certificate, VISA document, or
Lawful Permanent Resident I.D. If the applicant is a national from
overseas and currently has a valid VISA, it is optional to apply for a
temporary state driver’s license as a means to satisfy proof of identity
before applying for U.S. Passport. Once the passport agent has
received adequate identifying documentation, they will enter the
identifying information and request the applicant's signature. The
passport agent will act as a witness that the applicant is signing
under penalty of perjury to the terms and conditions listed above the
signature line. It is essential that the applicant read the terms and
conditions carefully before signing and before the passport agent
provide their seal of approval. There is an additional small detail the
applicant must "update" inside of the terms and conditions to apply
for a certificate of non-citizen national status properly. The contents
are as follows:
I declare under penalty of perjury all of the following: 1) I am a
citizen or non-citizen national of the United States and have not,
since acquiring U.S. citizenship or nationality, performed any of
the acts listed under "Acts or Conditions" on page four of the
instructions of this application (unless explanatory statement is
attached); 2) the statements made on the application are true
and correct; 3) I have not knowingly and willfully made false
statements or included false documents in support of this
application; 4) the photograph attached to this application is a
genuine, current photograph of me; and 5) I have read and
understood the warning on page one of the instructions to the
application form.
The subtle change that must occur is the crossing out of the word
“national” in the terms and conditions, so that it reads, "I am a
citizen or non-citizen of the United States." The wordplay is very
cunning. Remember, a non-citizen national of the United States is
the same as a U.S. citizen or U.S. national per Title 8 U.S. Code §
1101 – Definitions, section 22. As the applicant provides their
signature on the required line before the passport agent, they must
sign in this manner: smith, john doe, w/out the U.S. The final part of
the application is drafting the Supplemental Explanatory Statements
to attach to the application. The following is a word for word
template that has been used with a 100% approval rate. Assume the
applicant is a foreign national born in Colombia, currently living in
South Florida. This explanatory statement works hand in hand with
the Express Trust and its Schedule Minutes that will be detailed in
the next chapter. In this template, the 1838 Florida Constitution is
used, and should be replaced with the applicants pre-1933 state
constitution pertaining to where they live. (Note: The explanatory
statement will consist of 5 to 6 pages. Begin each page with a top-
header in red lettering, as stated on the following page.)
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE TO REMAIN WITH
AND ATTACHED TO THE PASSPORT APPLICATION IN ORDER
FOR THIS PASSPORT APPLICATION TO BE TRUE AND CORRECT
UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
PASSPORT EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE DONE BASED UPON
MY RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTIONS AND BELIEFS AND AS
REQUIRED BY THE ACTS OR CONDITIONS LISTED IN THE
INSTRUCTIONS ON PAGE FOUR
T A K E   E Q U I T A B L E   N O T I C E, of my unalienable
Religious Instructions and Beliefs protected by the 1838 Florida
Constitution – Article One – Declaration of Rights – Section Two to
State and Declare my Affidavit of Denial of U.S. [28 U.S. Code §
3002 (15)(A)] Citizenship pursuant to the Baby Act and pursuant to
the 39th Congress, Session One – Chapter Thirty-One – Page 27 –
Civil Rights Act of 1866 (enacted by the Senate and House
Representatives of the United States of America in Congress
assembled) and Declaration of being a Moor Free Inhabitant and
Native Colombian National "but NOT a citizen of the United States
or United States national." The Constitution of United States of
America 1789 – Article IV – Section One, states, "Full Faith and
Credit shall be given in each State to the public Acts, Records and
judicial Proceedings of every other State. And the Congress may by
general Laws prescribe the Manner in which such Acts, Records
and Proceedings shall be proved, and the Effect thereof," therefore
the 1877 Georgia Constitution – Article One – Bill of Rights – Section
Four – Paragraph One, states, "Laws of a general nature shall have
uniform operation throughout the State, and no special law shall be
enacted in any case for which provision has been made by an
existing general law. No general law affecting private rights, shall
be varied in any particular case, by special legislation, except with
the free consent, in writing of all persons to be affected thereby; and
no person under legal disability to contract, is capable of such
consent," shall apply to my Explanatory Statements.
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE TO REMAIN WITH
AND ATTACHED TO THE PASSPORT APPLICATION IN ORDER
FOR THIS PASSPORT APPLICATION TO BE TRUE AND CORRECT
UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
T A K E   E Q U I T A B L E   N O T I C E, Each State retains
its Sovereignty, freedom and independence, and every
Power, Jurisdiction and right, which is not by this
confederation expressly delegated to the United States in
Congress assembled per Article II of the Articles of
Confederation.
I, Last Name, First Name Middle Name d/b/a FIRST NAME
MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME, under Declaration of NAME
EXPRESS TRUST Dtd 01/01/2020, hereby and forever, State, claim
and declare I am not nor have I ever been a U.S. citizen or U.S.
national.
I declare that my name is Last Name, First Name Middle Name
d/b/a FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME. I am a Moor
Free Inhabitant and Native Colombian National, but not a Citizen
of the United States, domiciled in Florida. (Note: if applicant is born
in the U.S.A., the following statement applies) I declare that my
name is Last Name, First Name Middle Name d/b/a FIRST NAME
MIDDLE NAME LAST NAME. I am a Moor Free Inhabitant and
Native Floridian National, but not a Citizen of the United States,
domiciled in Florida. (see copy 2016 G.P.O. style manual page 95)
T A K E   E Q U I T A B L E   N O T I C E, I am NOT a Fourteenth
Amendment Federal citizen (ratified in 1868) "Subject to the
jurisdiction thereof." The U.S. State Department may recognize me
as a Moor Aboriginal Colombian National but not a citizen of the
United States. (Note: only if the applicant is formerly known as
Hispanic, Latino, Black, Negro, American Indian, or African
American…if any other nationality, provide it instead. For example,
an Italian National or Israeli National or Dutch National.) In
addition, my Right to a Certificate of Non-Citizen National Status
and/or United States of America
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE TO REMAIN
WITH AND ATTACHED TO THE PASSPORT APPLICATION IN
ORDER FOR THIS PASSPORT APPLICATION TO BE TRUE AND
CORRECT UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Passport comes from my Natural Right being born in Medellin,
Republic of Colombia; and my oath of allegiance taken before the
Broward County, Florida, Clerk of Circuit & County Court (a sworn
immigration officer), lawfully stated in Public Law 99-396 – August
27, 1986 100 STAT. 843; Section 16 (a) Section 341 of the
Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1452) is amended –
(b) A person who claims to be a national, but not a citizen, of the
United States may apply to the Secretary of State for a certificate of
non-citizen national status. Upon –
1) proof to the satisfaction of the Secretary of State that the
applicant is a national, but not a citizen, of the United
States, and
2) in the case of such a person born outside of the United
States or its outlying possessions, taking and subscribing,
before an immigration officer within the United States or
its outlying possessions, to the oath of allegiance required
by this Act of a petitioner for naturalization, the individual
shall be furnished by the Secretary of State with a
certificate of non-citizen national status, but only if the
individual is at the time within the United States or its
outlying possessions. [See enclosed Declaration of Express
Trust File No. 2020-1234567, Deed Book 62324, Filed &
Recorded 03/03/2020 at 12:12pm, Clerk of Circuit &
County Court, Broward County Florida, Honorable Brenda
D. Forman, Pages #-# and Schedule A: Trustee Minutes 2-
1234, Pages #-#, & Exhibit A – Certificate of Title No.
12345678 (English Translation attached) Dated eleventh
day of September 2001, pages #-#], the same and
"outside" of any corporate city municipality.
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE TO REMAIN WITH
AND ATTACHED TO THE PASSPORT APPLICATION IN ORDER
FOR THIS PASSPORT APPLICATION TO BE TRUE AND CORRECT
UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS OF THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
T A K E   E Q U I T A B L E   N O T I C E, that pursuant to 1877
Georgia Constitution (as ratified without subsequent amendments)
ARTICLE ONE – BILL OF RIGHTS – SECTION FOUR:
Paragraph I. Laws of a general nature shall have uniform
operation throughout the State, and no special law shall be enacted
in any case, for which provision has been made by an existing
general law. No general law affecting private rights, shall be varied in
any particular case, by special legislation, except with the free
consent, in writing of all persons to be affected thereby; and no
person under legal disability to contract, is capable of such consent.
Paragraph II. Legislative acts in violation of this Constitution, or
the Constitution of the United States, are void, and the Judiciary
shall so declare them.
AND   T A K E   F U R T H E R   N O T I C E   T H A T
I, Last Name, First Name Middle Name, the Settlor, State that
the NAME EXPRESS TRUST Dtd 01/01/2020 is the 1st lienholder of
the fourteenth amendment person LAST NAME, FIRST NAME
MIDDLE NAME corp. sole d/b/a FIRST NAME MIDDLE NAME
LAST NAME, did not consent for me or my private property to being
a fourteenth amendment citizen of the U.S. or STATE OF FLORIDA
and any other State in writing or any other consent.
AND   T A K E   F U R T H E R   N O T I C E   T H A T   THIS IS A
CONTRACT, failure to answer and rebut this affidavit is
acquiescence, allowing you 72 hours to answer; then this contract is
law.
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE TO REMAIN
WITH AND ATTACHED TO THE PASSPORT APPLICATION IN
ORDER FOR THIS PASSPORT APPLICATION TO BE TRUE AND
CORRECT UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
I, Last Name, First Name Middle Name, Declare and Let it be
known by all immigration clerks and the Secretaries of State,
Supreme Court Judge and Clerks for now, and forever I am a Moor
Aboriginal Colombian National (Note:
enter other nationality here) "but not a citizen of the United
States or United States national," nor will ever be a U.S. citizen or
U.S. national. You have three (3) days to bring forth your proof that I
am.
RESCISSION OF SIGNATURES
T A K E   N O T I C E   that I am not a statutory citizen and make
no claim of statutory citizenship created by any State or Federal
government. I hereby extinguish, rescind, revoke, cancel, abrogate,
annul, nullify, discharge, and make void ab initio all signatures
belonging to me, on all previously filed SS-5, Internal Revenue
Service; W-4 Forms, W-2 Forms, USCIS Forms, Florida Application
D.M.V. Forms, all Federal and State Income Tax Forms (if any) and
all powers of attorney, real and/or implied, connected thereto on the
grounds that my purported consent was voluntary and freely
obtained, but was made through mistake, duress, fraud, and undue
influence exercised by any or all governments (State or Federal) any
agency and/or employers. Pursuant to Contract Law; "all previously
signed Federal and State forms are, hereby, extinguished by this
rescission."
Any alleged consent is null and void as it was given under duress,
by mistake, and/or by fraud. Notwithstanding any information,
which you may have to the contrary, any forms that have been filed,
and any implied quasi-contracts that you may have with me, were
filed illegally and unlawfully and are without force and/or effect.
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE TO REMAIN
WITH AND ATTACHED TO THE PASSPORT APPLICATION IN
ORDER FOR THIS PASSPORT APPLICATION TO BE TRUE AND
CORRECT UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
I further revoke, rescind and make void ab initio all powers of
attorney pertaining to me from any and all governmental, quasi,
colorable agencies and/or Departments created under the authority
of Article One, Section Eight,
Clause Seventeen, and/or Article Four, Section Three, Clause
Two of the Constitution for the United States of America.
I preserve all of my unalienable Rights that are inherent from my
Creator, at all times. This application is done based upon my
Religious Instructions and Beliefs under the NAME EXPRESS
TRUST Dtd 01/01/2020, the Common Law jurisdiction of Florida
(NOTE: your state/country), the Treaty of Marrakesh, the Treaty of
Peace and Friendship, and the Constitution of the United States of
America.
ACTS OR CONDITIONS
"I have taken an oath and made an affirmation, formal
declaration of allegiance to a foreign state and made a formal
renunciation of nationality in the United States. Furthermore, I have
not been convicted of a federal or State drug offense or convicted of a
"sex tourism" crimes statute, and I am not the subject of an
outstanding federal, State, or local warrant of arrest for a felony; a
criminal court order forbidding my departure from the United
States; a subpoena received from the United States in a matter
involving federal prosecution for, or grand jury investigation of, a
felony."
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE TO REMAIN
WITH AND ATTACHED TO THE PASSPORT APPLICATION IN
ORDER FOR THIS PASSPORT APPLICATION TO BE TRUE AND
CORRECT UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Attached Exhibits:
Declaration of Express Trust
Certificate of Title (Birth Certificate)
Public Law 99-396, Aug. 27, 1986, 100 STAT. 837-847
(Note: if applicant is born in the U.S.A., include Copy of 2016
GPO Style Manual pages 1-4, 13 & 95)
(Note: if applicant is born outside the U.S.A., the jurat is as
follows)
I, Last Name, First Name Middle Name, born in the land of
Bogota, Republic of Colombia, South America, declare (or certify,
verify or State) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United
States of America [28 U.S. Code § 1746(1)], that "I, Last Name, First
Name Middle Name being duly sworn, hereby declare my intention
to be a national but not a citizen of the United States" [Public Law
99-396 – AUG. 27, 1986, 100 STAT. 843, Section 16(b)(1)(2)] and
the foregoing is true and correct.
(Note: if applicant is born in the U.S.A., the jurat is as follows)
I, Last Name, First Name Middle Name, born in the land of
Florida united states of America, the territory of Broward, declare (or
certify, verify or State) under penalty of perjury under the laws of the
United States of America [28 U.S. Code § 1746(1)], that "I, Last
Name, First Name Middle Name being duly sworn, hereby declare
my intention to be a national but not a citizen of the United States"
[Public Law 94-241 – March 24, 1976 – Article III. – 90 STAT. 266 –
Section 302] and the foregoing is true and correct.
THESE EXPLANATORY STATEMENTS ARE TO REMAIN
WITH AND ATTACHED TO THE PASSPORT APPLICATION IN
ORDER FOR THIS PASSPORT APPLICATION TO BE TRUE AND
CORRECT UNDER PENALTY OF PERJURY UNDER THE LAWS
OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
Executed this XX day of MONTH, 2021
Signed:_________________________
Last, First Middle without the U.S.
This concludes the supplemental explanatory statements! The
last page includes a Certificate of Acknowledgment signed, sealed,
and dated by a valid notary. The passport application, the
explanatory statement, the attachments, and the proper identifying
documents are needed to correct the applicant's commercial status.
Once the applicant has received the U.S. Passport Card or Book, it is
time to submit a F.O.I.A. (Freedom Of Information Act) request to
the Department of State. The Privacy Act allows an applicant to
obtain copies of their records, a minor child's, any person for whom
they are legal guardians or anyone who has authorized them to
obtain the records. The F.O.I.A. request would have the Department
of State return a certified copy of each page of the passport
application, which in turn is the actual "certificate of non-citizen
national status." This certification is the actual document that would
be provided with the corrected SS-5 form, mentioned in Chapter
Two. The applicant needs to draft an affidavit providing the following
information per travel.state.gov:
Full name at birth and any name changes of the individual
whose records are being requested, and if there are
records for children or using an authorization, provide the
full name as well.
Date and place of birth of the individual whose records are
requested.
Mailing address.
Daytime telephone number.
E-mail address, if available.
Date or estimated date of passport issuance.
Passport number, if known, and any other information
that will help the Dept. of State locate the records
(preferably the passport application locator number)
An exact copy of both sides of a valid government-issued
photo identification, such as a driver’s license, state I.D. or
temporary driver’s license
Sign and date F.O.I.A. Affidavit Request with the following
statement:
I, Last Name, First Name Middle Name, declare under penalty of
perjury, under the laws of the United States of America [28 U.S.C. §
1746(1)] that the foregoing is true and correct.
Provide a $50 Money Order made payable to U.S. Department of
State and mail to:
U.S. Department of State
Office of Law Enforcement Liaison
FOIA Officer
44132 Mercure Cir
P.O. Box 1227
Sterling, VA 20166
This method would resolve the hassles of receiving a lawful
permanent resident card (green card) for aliens or foreign nationals
and increase the number of persons in each State to have the right to
vote for President and Vice President. The number of nationals
increases, and the number of artificial persons such as U.S. citizens
decreases. Common Law jurisdiction would usurp federal statutory
legality.
R
CHAPTER EIGHT
The Temple & Trust
ender therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's and to God
the things that are God's," as stated in the books of Matthew
22:21, Mark 12:17, and Luke 20:25. The government acknowledges
and relies on biblical principles, recognizing that the various treaties
with the United States stem from the bible. Public Law 97-280 –
97th Congress – October 4, 1982; Joint Resolution, "Whereas the
Bible is the rock on which our Republic rests," is a crucial element to
the treaties derived from the Old Testament. When Yahusha stated,
"Render unto Caesar what is Caesar's and unto God what is God's,"
he was referring to covenant law, another word for contract law.
Under Caesar's covenant is to be associated with its government's
rules and regulations. Under God's covenant is to be in trust not just
spiritually but in writing via declaration, with proper notice given to
the ruling government. The bible is compiled of several treaties and
decrees, which have influenced every country/state constitution in
North America. The Apostle Paul, with inspiration from God, shares
a paramount order given from God to the church in Rome, in
Romans 13:1-7, reads,
Let every soul be subject to the governing authorities. For there
is no authority except from God, and the authorities that exist are
appointed by God. Therefore whoever resists the authority resists
the ordinance of God, and those who resist will bring judgment
on themselves. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to
evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what is
good, and you will have praise from the same. For he is God's
minister to you for good. But if you do evil, be afraid; for he does
not bear the sword in vain; for he is God's minister, an avenger to
execute wrath on him who practices evil. Therefore you must be
subject, not only because of wrath but also for conscience' sake.
For because of this you also pay taxes, for they are God's
ministers attending continually to this very thing. Render
therefore to all their due: taxes to whom taxes are due, customs
to whom customs, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor.
(New King James Version)
Comparing this same verse with Matthews Bible I537 edition, the
word soul in the first verse of chapter 13 is the word sole, as in
"corporate sole." A corporation sole is a legal entity comprised of a
single "sole" incorporated office, occupied by a single "sole" natural
person. In today's commercial system within the United States, every
person needs a commercial avatar, also known as a legal person,
such as the name associated with the social security number or social
insurance number, to proceed with commerce worldwide. If one does
not have an SSN, ITIN, or SIN (Social Insurance Number), then the
passport from their respective country would suffice. Every single
"sole" is occupied by a natural person, which is an Express Trust.
God explains that the "sole" will either be held in a Foreign Trust
under 
God's 
jurisdiction 
and 
registered 
within 
the 
ruling
governments consuls, or the "sole" will be under the ruling
government, known as the fourteenth amendment, Cestui Que Trust,
a.k.a. a Domestic Trust, in other words, Caesar. Most corporation's
sole are church-related, although some political offices of the U.K,
Canada, and the United States are corporations sole. Allowing the
Express Trust to be the beneficial owner of the "sole" and out of the
United States jurisdiction would avoid judgment, receive praise from
the ruling government, and avoid taxes. Following God's ordinances
expressed in Romans 13:1-7, it is viewed as a good practice, which
promotes so many benefits to neighboring communities and families
financially. However, remaining as a U.S. citizen and leaving the
"sole" within the United States jurisdiction is viewed as a practice of
evil, followed by judgment and avenged by God's ministers, who
today are the current leaders of the world. Some politicians know
this role, and others may not. God speaks so heavily against usury
and the charging of interest or taxes against one another throughout
the Old Testament. However, if one chooses to ignore God's treaty
laws, taxes and pillage are at their doorstep. The distinct detail to
avoid usury/taxes is not to fall within a Domestic Trust definition.
The term "domestic trust" means a trust in which a court within
the United States is able to exercise primary supervision over the
administration of the trust, and one or more U.S. persons have
the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust.
(IRC § 7701 Definitions)
What does it mean to render unto God what is God's? Above all,
it is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, kindness, goodness, faithfulness,
gentleness, and self-control, as mentioned in Galatians 5:22. What
exactly is the praise one would receive from the ruling government
by following God's ordinances? It is written,
"The thief does not come except to steal, and to kill, and to
destroy. I have come that they may have life and that they may
have it more abundantly."
(John 10:10 New King James Version – Yahusha, the Son)
Not only has the Son of God, Yahusha, come to give his life as the
only sacrifice to reconcile man back to God as a remission of their
sins but also to teach men the ways of righteousness and how to excel
at commerce. The concept of corporation sole began for the orderly
transfer of ecclesiastical property, serving to keep the title within the
denomination or religious society. Yahusha very well knows the
order of the ruling governments, and God has established access to
wealth by utilizing the governments as God's ministers. The United
States Treasury prints fiat currency and also mints lawful money via
coin. The phrase, "This note is legal tender for all debts, public and
private," is printed right on the currency, showing that there are two
sides to money. The United States Financial system's private side is
the United States Treasury Department, and the public side is the
Internal Revenue Service. Through God's ordinances, the I.R.S. has a
myriad collection of forms that can be utilized to access the wealth
stored in everyone's ecclesiastical property (estate) via the "sole," by
way of Yahusha. Readers of the bible are reminded,
"I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father
except through Me."
(John 14:6 New King James Version – Yahusha, the Son)
Great is our Lord and mighty in power; His understanding is
infinite.
(Psalms 147:5 New King James Version)
The word Lord in Psalms 147:5 is the word Adon in Hebrew,
meaning sovereign, master, owner, or a reference to men. Adoni is
an essential word to note when referring to the treaties associated
with the United States. The I.R.S. has codified the words in the two
scriptures above in their filing forms. There are many forms such as
1040, 1065, W-2, W-4, 1099-A, etc. It is interesting to see how the
Internal Revenue Service comes to decide the naming of such forms
and how it comes full circle in reference to a biblical treaty. The form
to take note of regarding the commercial abundance that Yahusha
and God have set aside for those that choose to partake in God's ways
is the W-8BEN. Hebrew and Arabic are very similar in speech and
writing, and the W-8BEN is Arabic and Greek lettering.
 is the Arabic word for God, which is Allah. The word is
thought to be derived by contraction from al-ilah, which means “the
god,” and is linguistically related to El (Elohim) and Elah, the
Hebrew and Aramaic words for God.
 is the Unicode mathematical symbol representing the concept
of “infinity”.
 is the Arabic and Hebrew word for “Son of.” In Arabic it is
sometimes used as Bin or Ibn, so therefore when read altogether, the
W-8BEN form is translated, “The way to God is through his infinite
son!” The form is titled Certificate of Foreign Status of Beneficial
Owner for United States Tax Withholding and Reporting
(Individuals).
A trust includes a minimum of two people fulfilling three
positions. The first position is the Settlor, which is the entity that
establishes the trust to lawfully transfer control of an asset to the
second position, known as a trustee, who manages it on behalf of the
third position, beneficiary(s). This rule indeed comes from the
mouth of Yahusha in the Book of Matthew.
“Again, I say to you that if two of you agree on earth concerning
anything that they ask, it will be done for them by My father. For
where two or three are gathered in My name, I am there in the
midst of them.”
(Matthew 18:19-20 New King James Version – Yahusha, the
Son)
Another I.R.S. filing form worth reviewing, as it goes hand and
hand with the W-8BEN form, is the W-9, Request for Taxpayer
Identification Number and Certification. The W-9 is given to any
entity the Express Trust will do business with, such as National
Associations, Credit Unions, Insurance Companies, DMV, or any
business seeking to enter into a contractual agreement that would
result in the receiving of any I.R.S. Form 1099. The number 9
appears in scripture forty-nine times and symbolizes divine
completeness or conveys the meaning of finality. Yahusha gave his
life in the 9th hour, or at 3 PM, that all people of the world would
have the free choice of reconciliation, including a tax-free life. The
W-9 is a completion of the W-8BEN. The following is how to
complete the W-9 form:
Box 1: Full name of the Express Trust
Box 2: Any business or other trade name the trust is also doing
business in
Box 3: Federal tax classification = Trust/Estate
Box 4: To Be Discussed
Box 5 & 6: In care of mailing address within the United States
Part I: Employer Identification Number = 98 Number
Part II: Certification: Foreign trustee signature
To understand Box 4, the I.R.S. Manual must be analyzed to
adequately provide the right Exempt payee code and Exemption
from FATCA reporting code. In 21.7.13.2.4 – How an EIN is
Assigned,
(3) 6/7 Million series EINs are reserved for Trusts, Estates, and
Non-Profit/Exempt Organizations under the Tax Equity and Fiscal
Responsibility Act (TEFRA). A 6/7 Million series EIN can be
identified by the number 6 or 7 immediately following the dash (-).
After speaking on the telephone with an I.R.S. agent, the EIN 98
Prefix was issued. It should be noted that the number after the dash
(-) is a six or a seven. According to section 3 of I.R.M. 21.7.13.2.4, if a
six or seven follows the dash, it is recognized that all Estates, Trusts,
and Non-Profits are exempt organizations under TEFRA. This is the
exemption code that goes into Box 4 of the W-9, TEFRA! And all
banks, trust companies, insurance companies, or other entities
seeking to apply tax or charge fines/fees will undoubtedly file the
Express Trust as an entity that cannot be taxed. Before the details on
how the W-8BEN can be given, it is best to thoroughly review the
treaties that the United States recognizes which makes the W-8BEN
operate efficiently.
The Moors of the Mehomitan Nation (Morocco) was the first
nation to recognize the United States. Most Moors and scholars
believe that the first treaty to establish this relationship of commerce
is the Treaty of Peace and Friendship in 1786 but it’s real name is the
Treaty of Marrakesh. This treaty is found nowhere on the Internet
but only in the books of the Library of Congress in a special
department. The treaty reads,
The following is the Treaty of Marrakesh:
1787 – In the name of God, the merciful. There exists strength
and power only by God. From the Servant of God, Mohammed
Ibn’ Abd Allah – may God help him – to the President of the
United States of America. Salvation be upon him who follows the
Righteous Path. We received your letter in which you propose a
peace treaty. (We are informing you that) our intention is also to
maintain peaceful relations with you. We have also contacted
Tunis and Tripoli regarding what you solicited from Our Majesty
and all your requests will materialize, God willing. Written on the
15th Dhu al-Qa’da I202 (July 18, 1787) the United States and
Morocco share an uninterrupted period of friendship starting
with Morocco being the first nation to recognize the
independence of the United States and to have signed in 1787 a
treaty of friendship and cooperation, the first of its kind
concluded by the young republic. The American treaty of
friendship with Morocco known as the “Treaty of Marrakesh,”
was signed in 1786, and had been drafted by Benjamin Franklin,
Thomas Jefferson and John Adams.
This was while Great Britain was turning its back on the young
republic, ending its protection of all American trade ships sailing
in the Mediterranean Sea. As a result, Americans were suffering
heavy losses from the vicious pirate attacks in the area. Great
Britain had even encouraged acts of piracy of vessels flying the
American flag. With no friends in the region and no navy to
protect its ships, the United States was left defenseless and,
according to Thomas Jefferson, incapable of exporting almost
one third of its wheat and one fourth of other items produced by
the seven states of the union. Attempts made by the United
States to solicit protection and support from France, however,
failed since Britain had a stronger position than France in the
area. Another attempt was made, and again failed, by turning to
the Netherlands in 1782. On February 20, 1778, Sultan Sidi
Muhammad bin Abdullah issued a declaration notifying all
consuls and European merchants in Tangier, Sale, and Mogador
that, “henceforth all vessels flying the American flag might freely
enter the Moroccan ports and enjoy in them the same privileges
and immunities with those of the other nations with whom
Morocco maintains peace.”
In response to the Moroccan Sultan’s initiative, the United States
Congress established a committee to write the draft of the
agreement that took a few years to enact. When Benjamin
Franklin left Paris in 1785, Thomas Jefferson became the U.S.
minister to France and Jefferson in Paris to form the final form
of the “Treaty of Marrakesh” that ultimately was ratified on July
18, 1787.
Later, in 1820, the sultan gave further evidence of his friendship
with America by presenting the United States with a palace in
Tangier. The building is still used by the American consul in that
city, and America is the only country to ever receive such an
honor from the government of Morocco.
(Treaties and Other International Acts of the United States of
America, Washington: Government Printing Office, 1931)
Notice the date of the Arabic Calendar (15th Dhu al-Qa'da I202)
and the Gregorian Calendar's date (July 18, 1787). That is indeed the
letter "I" 202 displayed in the image and not the number "1". In
Arabic, the "I" refers to the era of Adoni, the year of our Lord and the
Savior. Adon is defined as Lord and the suffix of "i" is defined as My,
which completes the phrase My Lord. Many ancient texts used the
"I" to establish the time period of Adoni also referred to as Anno
Domini, which is Medieval Latin and means "in the year of the Lord."
It is used to refer to the years after the birth of Yahusha but
mistakenly interpreted "A.D." as "after death." Adoni was also
commonly known as Iahoh (God of everlasting time) and Iahoh is the
God who covenanted with Abram. Abram would eventually become
Abraham and he planted a grove which invoked Iahoh as stated in
Genesis 21:33. Iahoh influenced the era of I when it comes to dating
systems. In many old documents filed with the United States, "I"
### referring to the year is everywhere. Within the International
Court 
of 
Justice: 
YEAR 
I952, 
August 
27th 
I952, 
CASE
CONCERNING RIGHTS OF NATIONALS OF THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA IN MOROCCO (FRANCE v. UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA), reads,
Consular jurisdiction in French Zone of Morocco as based on
bilateral treaties, most-favored-nation clauses and multilateral
treaties. – Meaning of "dispute" in Treaty of I836 between
Morocco and the United States;
This document is stating "In the year of our Lord" 952 or 836.
This denotes that biblical times are not so distant from today, and
the current year is not what it is! The quote above comes from a text
written in French as well with the same dating system. In French, the
phrase "In Morocco" translates "Au Maroc," derived from Latin out
of Quebec, Louisiana. Quebec, Louisiana is a "country" in North
America and a former French Empire colony. It was initially the
name of the French colony consisting of Louisiana and the former
province of Quebec, and it came to be after an independence
movement in Quebec (aided by the French) seceded from British
North America and managed even to take some land from Ontario to
join the territory of Louisiana. This was one of Benjamin Franklin's
descriptions when he mentioned all of the Americas and Europe
were wholly swarthy and tawny people just a little over 200 years
ago. An in-depth study of Adoni can be found in the document titled
"The Mysteries of Adoni" by S.F. Dunlap, Deposited in the U.S.
District Clerk's Office, Southern District of New York.
Followed by the Treaty of Marrakesh is the Treaty of Tunis and
Tripoli. The Treaty of Tripoli substantiates the trust from paying any
taxes on money earned while doing business in North America. The
treaty was signed at Tripoli, 3 Ramada I, A.H. I211 (November 4,
1796), initially written in Arabic.
There is a firm and perpetual Peace and friendship between the
United States of America and the Bey and subjects of Tripoli of
Barbary, made by the free consent of both parties, and guaranteed by
the most potent Dey & regency of Algiers.
(Article One)
Should a vessel of either party be cast on the shore of the other,
all-proper assistance shall be given to her and her people; no pillage
shall be allowed; the property shall remain at the disposition of the
owners, and the crew protected and succoured till they can be sent to
their country.
(Article Seven)
The commerce between the United States and Tripoli, -the
protection to be given to merchants, masters of vessels and seamen, -
the reciprocal right of establishing consuls in each country, and the
privileges, immunities and jurisdictions to be enjoyed by such
consuls, are declared to be on the same footing with those of the
most favoured nations respectively.
(Article Nine)
As the government of the United States of America is not in any
sense founded on the Christian Religion, -as it has in itself no
character of enmity against the laws, religion or tranquility of
Musselmen, -and as the said States never have entered into any war
or act of hostility against any Mehomitan nation, it is declared by the
parties that no pretext arising from religious opinions shall ever
produce an interruption of the harmony existing between the two
countries.
(Article Eleven)
Article seven states, "No pillage shall be allowed," which is
defined as to strip ruthlessly of money or goods by open violence as
in war; plunder. This is the language, which will be used as one of the
eleven steps to completing the I.R.S. Form W-8BEN. It is as follows,
Part I. Identification of Beneficial Owner
Box 1: Name of Individual who is beneficial owner –Express
Trust Name
Box 2: Country of Citizenship – Mehomitan Nation
Box 3: Permanent Residence Address – Foreign Express Trust
Address
Box 4: Mailing Address – U.S. Domestic Address
Box 5: SSN/ITIN (only for canceling a tax bill)
Box 6: Foreign Tax Identifying number – 98 Number
Box 7: Reference Number – Merchant Account Number
Box 8: Date of Birth (only for canceling a tax bill)
Part II. Claim of Tax Treaty Benefits
(Note: The underlined portion is the fill in the blank answers)
Line 9. I certify that the beneficial owner is a resident of
TRIPOLI within the meaning of the income tax treaty between the
United States and that country.
Line 10. Special rates and conditions (if applicable – see
instructions): The beneficial owner is claiming the provisions of
Article and paragraph ARTICLE 7, 9, & 11 of the treaty identified on
line 9 above to claim a 0% rate of withholding on (specify type of
income): i.e., Contractor Agreement, Mortgage: Principal & Interest,
Earned Wages, Filing Application Fee, Court Filing Fee, etc.).
Explain the additional conditions in the Article and paragraph the
beneficial owner meets to be eligible for the rate of withholding: Per
the Treaty of Marrakesh of 1786 and the Treaty of Tripoli of 1796:
Article 7 states, "No pillage shall be allowed; the property shall
remain at the disposition of the owners, and the crew protected and
succoured till they can be sent to their country.
Part III. Certification
Signature of beneficial owner, Print name, Provide date –
Foreign Trustee.
Whenever using the I.R.S. W-8BEN Form, it is always a
professional gesture to provide a trust Office letter of introductory
from the foreign trustee addressed to whoever receives the form,
showcasing the Trust Office's intentions. The trustee has authorized
the person of delivery to be an official Authorized Representative or
Agent to administrate on its behalf. Using the W-9 and W-8BEN will
completely eradicate any tax/usury any entity attempts forced onto
the individual or business entity; however, to fully utilize these forms
and the treaties; living in trust as God instructs in the book of
Romans must be understood and performed. In the previous
chapters, the Target Inc., employee, Christopher Wellington,
completed the process of to avoid Federal, State, Social Security and
Medicare withholding from his paychecks. Upon receiving a W-2, a
tax bill would ultimately be established and Mr. Wellington would
use the W-8BEN, proving his social security number in box 5 and
also his unique I.R.S. reference number in box 7. This is the power of
the Zero Percent and the process to cancel a tax bill with the
inclusion of the non-U.C.C. Nine Billion Dollar lien, and a copy of the
registered Declaration of Express Trust. An author named Carlton
Albert Weiss provides an excellent guide to the administration of an
Express Trust under Common Law, functioning under the general
law-merchant, titled "Weiss's Concise Trustee Handbook."
In a review of Mr. Weiss's writings, it must be understood that
any trust, regardless of the many designations applied to them, is, in
its most basic sense, a property interest held by one person (the
trustee) at the request of another (the Settlor) for the benefit of a
third party (the beneficiary). The classification applied to trust is
based upon its mode of creation, in which it may be created either by
an act of a party (express or implied) or by an act of the law.
The court held that the Express Trust is a "contractual
relationship based on trust form,"; and in Smith v. Morse, 2 Cal.
524, it was held that any law or procedure in its operation
denying or obstructing contract rights impairs the contractual
obligation and is, therefore, violative of Article I, Section 10 of
the Constitution. Because the Express Trust is created by the
exercise of the natural right to contract, which cannot be
abridged, the agreement, when executed, becomes protected
under federally enforceable right of contract law and not under
laws passed by any of the several state legislatures.
[Berry v. McCourt, 204 N.E.2d 235, 240 (1965)]
The court made it clear that the Express Trust is not subject to
legislative control. It went further to acknowledge the right-wise
stance of the United States Supreme Court that the trust
relationship comes under the realm of equity, based upon the
common-law right of contract, and is not subject to legislative
restrictions as are corporations and other organizations created
by legislative authority. To clarify the equity and common-law
distinctions, the basis for Express Trusts under the Common Law
in this instance, is not that such organizations are creatures of
Common Law, as distinguished from equity,
but that they are created under the Common Law of contracts
and do not depend upon any statute.
[Eliot v. Freeman, 220 U.S. 178 (1911)]
The Declaration of Trust is the trust instrument that constitutes
the trust. It has been noted in trust law that no technical expressions
are required to create a valid declaration, so long as the words used
to make clear the Settlor's intent to create the trust or confer, a
benefit of some sort that would be best carried out utilizing a trust. A
trust instrument doesn't necessarily need to be a declaration either,
for a trust may be, and often is, formed out of a simple agreement or
even a will. But with an Express Trust, the declaration has been
preferred since the beginnings of trusts under England's Common
Law, which otherwise shunned fictions of law. Moreover, the
declaration, by its terms and provisions, serves to establish the entire
contractual arrangement, including the identities and positions of
the parties, the trust's name, jurisdiction and situs, and all
particulars of administration, all of which the courts of equity will
fully support by the principle that equity compels performance. The
term natural person has been applied to Express Trust by courts of
equity because of its administration, being carried out by men acting
as natural persons. Under this application, the trust's right of
contract is alienable, whereas its creditors' natural right of contract is
not. Initially, the legal minds who perfected the Express Trust in
America did so to accommodate the incredible obstacles in
pr78ocuring special charters for corporations intended to deal in real
estate, which trusts eventually came to be known as the
"Massachusetts Land Trust."
The trustee(s) of an Express Trust are protected under the
Constitution as "citizens" throughout the continental United
States. The trustee(s) under a will or declaration of an Express
Trust are natural persons, "citizens" within the meaning of
Article IV, Section 2 of the Constitution, and are therefore
entitled to all the "privileges and immunities" of same.
(Paul v. Virginia, 75 U.S. 168 (1868)
To all foreign nationals and nationals of the united States of
America, the above case law just gave the solution to bypass
extradition, or the need for various permissions of the USCIS. By
becoming a trustee of an Express Trust that is appropriately
registered within any united States of America court, and apply for
the certificate of non-citizen national status via the U.S. Passport as
previously mentioned. It is the power of trust within Common Law
jurisdiction that provides real freedom. Thirty-three countries use
the English Common Law system such as Uganda, Tuvalu, Trinidad,
and Tobago, Tonga, Singapore, St. Vincent, and the Grenadines, St.
Kitts and Nevis, Pakistan, Northern Ireland, New Zealand, Nepal,
Nauru, Myanmar, Kiribati, Jamaica, Israel, Ireland, India, Hong
Kong, Grenada, Gibraltar, Fiji, England and Wales, Dominica,
Cyprus, Cayman Islands, Canada (except Quebec), British Virgin
Islands, Bhutan, Belize, Barbados, Bangladesh, Bahamas, Australia,
Antigua, and Barbuda. Almost every other country is centered
around a civil law system which is entirely statutory and excludes all
trust law. The Napoleonic Code influences Spain, the Republic of the
Congo, Bolivia, or Colombia based on the Chilean Civil Law. The
Germanic Civil Law influences Croatia, and Lithuania is based on the
Dutch Civil Law. The lack of education in these countries regarding
trust law makes it very easy for the United States to obtain more
fourteenth amendment citizens, which means more foreign nationals
subjected to taxes and surrendering their nationality, becoming
stateless. The United States is one of five permanent members who
hold the highest voting power of the United Nations Security Council
over China, France, Russia, and the United Kingdom.
Any trust may divide its trust property into shares and issue
certificates. The power to issue certificates and bonds and employ an
official seal has never been restricted to corporations. It is well-
settled law that whatever else most corporations possess beyond
their artificiality and right of suit in a corporate name is a mere
incident or consequence of incorporation and not a "primary
constituent." Furthermore, the certificates have no determinable fair
market value. Therefore, no gain or loss is recognized until the cost
or other basis of the property disposed of has been recovered. In
Commissioner of Internal Revenue v. Marshman, the court held that
fair market value is determined by property received by the taxpayer,
not the fair market value of the property transferred by the taxpayer
into the trust. The certificates are considered not necessarily as
chattels but as documentary evidence of ownership and intangible
rights. In and of themselves, they are only personal property, not the
actual interest or share itself. There are 100 units of beneficial
interest and a separate total of 100 units of capital interest in the
trust. The trustees determine the number of units (percentage of
total interest) held by anyone beneficiary and may issue the full 100
units (100%) to a single beneficiary. One fascinating power the
Express Trust can exercise is issuing bonds to obtain money for its
endeavors. With bonds, because a bond is merely an obligation or
promises to pay money or to do some act upon the occurrence of
certain circumstances, the trust need only issue the bond according
to the particular transaction, to back the performance of a particular
contract, to raise capital from outside investors in the form of
"IOU’s,” etc. Within the Florida Code – Business Organizations,
Common-Law Declarations of Trust – Chapter 609 § 609.05, states,
Qualification with Office of Financial Regulation. – Before any
person may offer for sale, barter or sell any unit share, contract
note, bond, mortgage, oil or mineral lease or other security of an
association doing business under what is known as a “declaration
of trust” in this State, such person shall procure from the Office
of Financial Regulation of the Financial Services Commission a
permit to offer for sale and sell such securities, which permit
shall be applied for and granted under the same conditions as
like permits are applied for and granted to corporations.
The Express Trust can apply for a permit to issue bonds (IOUs)
as an unregistered security, without the need of the Security and
Exchange Commission (SEC). The unregistered security laws come
from Rule 144A of the SEC, an exemption bypassing the
requirements of Section Five of the Securities Act of 1933, which was
amended for the sale of qualifying securities (promissory notes and
bonds). This exemption applies to the sale of securities to qualified
institutional buyers, who are commonly referred to as “QIBs.” QIBs
must be institutions and cannot be individuals – no matter how
wealthy or sophisticated. Anyone besides an issuer may rely on Rule
144A. An issuer that intends to engage in multiple offerings may
establish a “Rule 144A program.” Rule 144A programs are programs
established for offering securities (usually debt securities) on an
ongoing or continuous basis to potential offerees. They are similar to
“medium-term note programs,” but they are unregistered, and the
securities are sold only to QIBs. Originally, in 1990, the NASDAQ
Stock Market offered a compliance review process that granted The
Depository Trust Company (DTC) book-entry access to Rule 144A
securities. That review was later abandoned as unnecessary. Moving
forward, NASDAQ launched an Electronic Trading Platform for Rule
144A securities called PORTAL Rule 144A should not be confused
with Rule 144 (public unregistered limited securities). At the same
time, 144A pertains to unregistered private securities without limits.
The number 144 may be familiar to those of religious groups or
to some who study eschatology. In the Book of Revelations, chapter
7:18, are the 144,000 servants of God. Twelve thousand servants or
representatives are holding the plenipotentiary seats of financial
power within the twelve tribes of Israel. These tribes are scattered
across the earth but mostly the Americas, known as Yudah, Reuben,
Gad, Asher, Naphtali, Manasseh, Simeon, Levi, Issachar, Zebulun,
Joseph, and Benjamin or “Ben-yamin.” By the proper use of the
foreign Express Trust, under God’s treaty laws, the trust can partake
in the inheritance within the Tribes of Israel, using Rule 144A. When
the Express Trust issues a bond or promissory note to a QIB, the
instrument is sold or circulated, generating the funds, routed back to
the trust account, and the trust does not pay the Interest or
repayment of the Bond/Note. Instead, all fourteenth amendment
citizens outside of God’s ordinances are subject to Caesar’s
rendering.
Anyone (man or entity) capable of taking physical possession of
the legal title to property can be a trustee. The number of trustees to
serve in any one trust is not limited. Generally speaking, where there
is more than one trustee concerning each other, they are referred to
as co-trustees, and when collaborating as a collective body, they are
referred to as the Board of Trustees. The powers of a trustee are
divided into three categories such as general, special, and
discretionary. The general is all those inherent in trustees virtue
officii, i.e., ordinarily conferred by trust law; the special are all those
conferred by the trust instrument, and the discretionary are all those
arising out of the necessity of personal judgment (though broad
discretion may also be conferred by law and as well as by trust
instrument). It is well-settled law that under a declaration of trust,
the trustees must have all the powers necessary to carry out the
obligation of that private contract which they have assumed.
Some of the major differences between Express Trust and
Corporations are as follows:
Express Trust – Are governed under equity, and trust law
is the most well-settled body of Law in America.
Corporations – are governed under statutes, which are
forever changing according to political agendas and
schemes.
Express Trust – Trustees, afforded more leverage and
powers, are generally broader than corporate officers. Law
provides that whatever any individual may lawfully do,
trust can do. The sky (nature) is the limit. Corporations –
Relatively have broad powers, such as with holding
companies. But corporations may not do whatever any
individual may lawfully do; they can only do what is legal.
The statute (legislature) is the limit.
Express Trust – Life-span of 20 to 25 years at a time to
avoid rules against perpetuities. Death of a Settlor or
trustee does not affect the life or affairs of the trust. A
succession of power is quiet and private. Corporations –
Life-span is a perpetual or certain number of years
according to legislative requirements. All officer changes
must be reported, which records are open for public
review.
Express Trust – Are not required to obtain business
licenses whatsoever. Corporations – It is the very
opposite.
Express Trust – All Federal excise tax and state
organization, and franchise taxes are legally avoided.
Corporations – Federal excise tax is demanded except
state taxes in some states. All corporations are taxed
indirectly by way of inflation.
Express Trust – The Trustees are not required to file
reports with any entity and are accountable only to the
beneficiary, governed strictly under equity principles.
Corporations – They are required to file statements and
reports quarterly.
These advantages and more have been and are still in action by
some of the wealthiest individuals and families in America and
abroad. But the widely perceived yet untraceable wealth of such
individuals and families like the Rothchilds, the Rockefellers, the
Kennedys, the Forbes, the Vanderbilts, and many of the alleged
American founding fathers, plus countless modern-day politicians,
are strong circumstantial evidence of this. One may find many
articles and information, as well as quotes, attesting to this.
When the trustee engages in trade or commerce on behalf of the
trust, acting under general Common Law, the trust is within the
jurisdiction over which the Bill of Rights' literal and absolute
protections extend. They have no direct contact with the federal
government. And, under the right of contract law protected under
the Federal Constitution, the trustee may enter into the fourteenth
amendment jurisdiction via contract, i.e., by willfully availing the
trust of benefits like the quasi-corporate privilege/franchise of
limited liability for the discharge of debts with Federal Reserve notes
under H.J. Resolution 192. The many participants under this system,
especially fourteenth amendment citizens from each state, form an
unincorporated federation of state associations operating under
interstate commerce as addressed in Article IV § three clauses two
and reinforced by the landmark Erie R. Co. v. Tompkins decision.
This is the basis for the federal government's, including state
governments, the compulsion of persons to its public international
law, commonly known as codes and statutes (state or federal), to
regulate everything as a matter of commerce.
In Roman civil law, as a base-model for commerce regulation,
was developed out of the necessity of the church to avoid political
scrutiny for its handling of ever-increasing amounts of precious
metals. It had become a "storehouse" for the money and property the
people were persuaded to give in exchange for limited liability [in the
form of tithing] (i.e., go directly to heaven instead of hell). As the
people became more educated and saw what was really behind the
power of religion [in generating wealth], the Roman Church fell
under tremendous criticism. Which led to the development of a
banking system to handle and control church wealth and take the
critical focus [away from the church.]
The bank learned from the church about limited liability.
Suppose they could get people to borrow money beyond their ability
to pay back. In that case, they could get them to keep performing
[paying interest in one form or another] on a debt (liability) without
ever demanding it [the principal] back, thereby loaning out that
same credit to more than one individual or company. This meant
that the bank was limiting the borrower's liability. The borrower was
not entirely responsible for the debt so long as the borrower
continued to perform to paying the interest. In this banking method,
real money (gold) became credit (paper money) by loaning to more
than one person. Being involved in this sort of commerce was called
"private commerce." With the church's control over wealth, this
private commerce became standard practice in the world trade
across the sea – private international or admiralty/maritime law
became known as Roman civil law as it began to figure heavily in the
politics of every city and country it touched through international
commerce, governed by the Uniform Commercial Code.
In this law operation, all persons subject to its jurisdiction are
regarded as vessels, having a distinct quasi-corporate, juridical
personality, capable of suing and being sued in rem. Fourteenth
amendment citizens of the United States, whether state or federal
chartered corporations or metaphysical-chartered corporate-colored
public person, are public vessels of the United States within the
broad meaning of the Public Vessels Act and are regulated. The
United States, as with the Roman Church, is the "ship of state." The
Express Trust is a private vessel of the united States of America,
navigating through the often hostile waters called interstate
commerce.
In light of the Roman church influencing banks around the world
to engage in private commerce, the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago
published their book called Modern Money Mechanics, with versions
from 1961-1994 and most recently published in 1994; further
describing the monetary system since the time of the creation of the
Federal Reserve Bank. Who creates money? A question asked by so
many and answered by the Federal bank itself.
Changes in quantity of money may originate with actions of the
Federal 
Reserve 
System 
(the 
central 
bank), 
depository
institutions (principally commercial banks), or the public. The
major control, however, rests with the central bank. The actual
process of money creation takes place primarily in banks. As
noted earlier, checkable liabilities of banks are money. These
liabilities are customers' accounts. They increase when
customers deposit currency and checks and when the proceeds of
loans made by the banks are credited to borrowers' accounts. In
the absence of legal reserve requirements, banks can build up
deposits by increasing loans and investments so long as they
keep enough currency on hand to redeem whatever amounts the
holders of deposits want to convert into currency. This unique
attribute of the banking business was discovered many centuries
ago. It started with goldsmiths. As early bankers, they initially
provided safekeeping services, making a profit from vault storage
fees for gold and coins deposited with them. People would
redeem their "deposit receipts" whenever they needed gold or
coins to purchase something, and physically take the gold or
coins to the seller who, in turn, would deposit them for
safekeeping, often with the same banker. Everyone soon found
that it was a lot easier simply to use the deposit receipts directly
as a means of payment. These receipts, which became known as
notes, were acceptable as money since whoever held them could
go to the banker and exchange them for metallic money. Then,
bankers discovered that they could make loans merely by giving
their promises to pay, or bank notes, to borrowers. In this way,
banks began to create money. More notes could be issued than
the gold and coin on hand because only a portion of the notes
outstanding would be presented for payment at any one time.
Enough metallic money had to be kept on hand, or course, to
redeem whatever volume of notes was presented for payment.
Transaction deposits are the modern counterpart of bank notes.
It was a small step from printing notes to making book entries
crediting deposits of borrowers, which the borrowers in turn
could "spend" by writing checks, thereby "printing" their own
money.
(Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago – Modern Money Mechanics)
As mentioned in Chapter Five: Eradicating Public Debt, money is
created mainly within computer book entries instead of Federal
Reserve notes being printed or actual coins being minted. To better
understand the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago's description of
money creation, it is best to see it unfold in the court of law, straight
from the bankers. In First National Bank of Montgomery v. Jerome
Daly, in the Justice Court, State of Minnesota, County of Scott,
Township of Credit River case; Jerome Daly was an attorney in
Minnesota and also the defendant in an unlawful detainer action in
the justice of the peace court where Martin V. Mahoney was the
justice of the peace. In this case, the bank sought possession of the
property it had already foreclosed the mortgage on. The Jury decided
against the bank, all the while Daly did not prevail. In addition to
learning the remedies of Express Trust, the case will reveal in great
detail why the property reverted to the bank from an appeal and not
to the defendant.
JUDGMENT AND DECREE
The above entitled action came on before the Court and Jury of
12 December 7, 1968 at 10:00 am. Plaintiff appeared by its President
Lawrence V. Morgan and was represented by its Counsel, R. Mellby.
Defendant appeared on his own behalf.
A Jury of Talesmen were called, impaneled and sworn to try the
issues in the case. Lawrence V. Morgan was the only witness called
for Plaintiff and Defendant testified as the only witness in his own
behalf.
Plaintiff brought this as a Common Law action for the recovery of
the possession of Lot 19 Fairview Beach, Scott County, Minn.
Plaintiff claimed title to the Real Property in question by foreclosure
of a Note and Mortgage Deed dated may 8, 1964 which Plaintiff
claimed was in default at the time foreclosure proceedings were
started.
Defendant appeared and answered that the Plaintiff created the
money and credit upon its own books by bookkeeping entry as the
consideration for the Note and Mortgage of May 8, 1964 and alleged
failure of the consideration for the Mortgage Deed and alleged that
the Sheriff's sale passed no title to plaintiff.
The issues tried to the Jury were whether there was a lawful
consideration and whether defendant had waived his rights to
complain about the consideration having paid on the Note for almost
3 years.
Morgan admitted that all of the money or credit which was used
as a consideration was created upon their booked, that this was
standard banking practice exercised by their bank in combination
with the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, another private Bank,
further that he knew of no United States Statute or Law that gave the
Plaintiff the authority to do this. Plaintiff further claimed that
defendant by using the ledger book created credit and by paying on
the Note and Mortgage waived any right to complain about the
Consideration and that the defendant was estopped from doing so.
At 12:15 on December 7, 1968 the Jury returned a unanimous
verdict for the defendant.
Now therefore, by virtue of the authority vested in me pursuant
to eh Declaration of Independence, the Northwest Ordinance of
1787, the Constitution of United States and the Constitution and the
laws of the State of Minnesota not inconsistent therewith;
IT IS HEREBY ORDEred, ADJUDGED AND DECREED:
1. That the Plaintiff is not entitled to recover the possession
of Lot 19, Fairview Beach, Scott County, Minnesota
according to the Plat thereof on file in the Register of
Deeds office.
2. That because of failure of a lawful consideration the Note
and Mortgage dated May 8, 1964 are null and void.
3. That the Sheriff's sale of the above described premises
held on June 26, 1967 is null and void, of no effect.
4. That the Plaintiff has not right title or interest in said
premises or lien thereon as is above described.
5. That any provision in the Minnesota Constitution and any
Minnesota Statute binding the jurisdiction of this court is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and to
the Bill of Rights of the Minnesota Constitution and is
null and void and that this court has jurisdiction to render
complete justice in this Cause.
The 
following 
memorandum 
and 
any 
supplementary
memorandum made and filed by this court in support of this
judgment is hereby made a part hereof by reference.
BY THE COURT
Dated December 9, 1968
Justice MARTIN V. MAHONEY
Credit River Township
Scott County, Minnesota
MEMORANDUM
The issues in this case were simple. There was no material
dispute of the facts for the Jury to resolve.
Plaintiff admitted that it, in combination with the federal
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, which are for all practical purposes,
because of their interlocking activity and practices, and both being
Banking Institutions Incorporated under the Laws of the United
States, are in the law to be treated as one and the same bank, did
create the entire $14,000.00 in money or credit upon its own books
by bookkeeping entry. That this was the Consideration used to
support the Note dated May 8, 1964 and the Mortgage of the same
date. The money and credit first came into existence when they
created it. Mr. Morgan admitted that no United States Law Statute
existed which gave him the right to do this. A Company v. Emma
Mason, 44 Minn. 318, 46 N.W. 558. The Jury found that there was
no consideration and I agree. Only God can create something of
value out of nothing.
Even if defendant could be charged with waiver or estoppel as a
matter of law this is no defense to the Plaintiff. The law leaves
wrongdoers where it finds them. See sections 50, 51 and 52 of Am
Jur 2nd "Actions" on page 584 – "no action will lie to recover on a
claim based upon, or in any manner depending upon, a fraudulent,
illegal, or immoral transaction or contract to which Plaintiff was a
party."
Plaintiff's act of creating credit is not authorized by the
Constitution and Laws of the United States, is unconstitutional and
void, and is not a lawful consideration in the eyes of the law to
support anything or upon which any lawful right can be built.
Nothing in the Constitution of the United States limits the
jurisdiction of this court, which is one of original jurisdiction with
right of trial by Jury guaranteed. This is a Common Law action.
Minnesota cannot limit or impair the power of this court to render
Complete Justice between the parties. Any provisions in the
Constitution and laws of Minnesota which attempt to do so is
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States and void. No
question as to the Jurisdiction of this Court was raised by either
party at the trial. Both parties were given complete liberty to submit
any and all facts to the Jury, at least in so far as they saw fit.
No complaint was made by Plaintiff that Plaintiff did not receive
a fair trial. From the admissions made by Mr. Morgan the path of
duty was direct and clear for the Jury. Their Verdict could not
reasonably been otherwise. justice was rendered completely and
without denial, promptly and without delay, freely and without
purchase, conformable to the laws in this Court on December 7,
1968.
BY THE COURT
Dated December 9, 1968
Justice MARTIN V. MAHONEY
Credit River Township
Scott County, Minnesota
It is revealed by the Justice of the Court that the arguments of
the defendant were true given that the plaintiff could not produce
any evidence that the bank did not create the money or credit from
their bookkeeping as lawful consideration. The Justice of the Court
also revealed that the defendant could not recover his property in a
"Common Law action" because all Common law actions only have
jurisdiction within a court of equity or chancery. The justice could
not speak on a matter of equity while in a court of law (civil law)
being that the arguments were in the realm of trust law and the
defendant did not have an Express Trust as the owner of the
property; registered with the court, giving the justice jurisdiction to
even hear and speak on the matters of the Common Law. Had Daly
correctly used a trust to fight this battle in equity court, First
National Bank of Montgomery most likely would have never
appeared in court but instead opt for settling out of court to escape
the financial damages of equity and more importantly to escape the
case becoming precedence.
All National Associations (banks or credit unions) engage in
fraudulent mortgages by breaking the very laws that govern them,
such as the National Currency Act of 1863. The banks break many
sections of the act; however, three are worth examining, which the
Express Trust can and should pursue in a court of equity to cancel
the debt.
And be it further enacted, That it shall be unlawful for any officer
acting under the provisions of this act to countersign or deliver to
any such association, or to any company or person, any
circulating notes contemplated by this act, except as hereinbefore
provided, and in accordance with the true intent and meaning of
this act; and any officer who shall violate the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of a high misdemeanor, and on
conviction thereof shall be punished by fine not exceeding double
the amount so countersigned and delivered, and imprisonment
not exceeding fifteen years, at the discretion of the court in which
he shall be tried.
(Section 33 – National Currency Act of 1863)
A countersign is defined as adding a signature to a document
already signed by another person. All Presidents, CEOs, CFOs,
Cashiers, or Secretaries countersign the received promissory notes
or, better yet, the 1003 Mortgage Application before submitting to
the Federal Reserve window for a deposit. In return, credits are
applied to the banks bookkeeping to fund the loan. These
applications come from all types of mortgages from fixed-rate,
adjustable-rate, 
FHA, 
VA, 
USDA, 
Jumbo, 
Interest-only,
Conventional, 
Conforming, 
Government-backed, 
and 
Reverse
Mortgages. In other words, the note or the mortgage application is a
check that the applicant signs with the social security number
creating the money, distributed to the escrow closing table. The note
is sold within open market operations and never to be seen again.
According to Section 22 of the National Currency Act, only the
comptroller can receive notes or bonds with countersigning duties. If
the Express Trust were to request discovery in a court of equity, a
certified copy of the front and back of the note displaying the bank
officer's signature, with or without the comptroller’s signature then
the bank has violated section 33 of the act, facing severe penalties.
And be it further enacted, That every association may take,
reserve, receive, and charge on any loan, or discount made, or
upon any note, bill of exchange, or other evidence of debt, such
rate of interest or discount as is for the time the established rate
of interest for delay in the payment of money, in the absence of
contract between the parties, by the laws of several States in
which the associations are respectively located, and no more:
Provided, however, That interest may be reserved or taken, in
advance, at the time of making the loan or discount, according to
the usual rules of banking; and the knowingly taking, reserving,
or charging of a rate of interest greater than that allowed by this
section shall be held and adjudged a forfeiture of the debt or
demand on which the same is taken, reserved, or charged; but
the purchase, discount, or sale of a bill of exchange, drawn on
actually existing values, and payable at another place than the
place of such purchase, discount, or sale, at the current discount
or premium, shall not be considered as taking, reserving, or
charging interest.
(Section 46 – National Currency Act of 1863)
In 2003, of all new mortgages, 10.2 percent were interest-only,
meaning the homeowner paid only the interest for the loan's initial
period. In some areas of the united States of America where homes
are expensive, these loans were prevalent in most California cities,
Denver, Washington, Phoenix, and Seattle. Interest-only loans
represented 40 percent or more of all mortgages issued in 2005.
Traditionally, interest-only loans and adjustable-rate loans were
used by people who expected to live in a house only a short time.
Still, such loans have turned into "affordability products" as housing
prices rose. The interest rate on the loans, while below that of
conventional 30-year fixed-rate mortgages at the beginning, resets
after 3, 5, 7, or 10 years, depending on the loan. Borrowers who took
out loans in 2004 could find, for example, that their initial 4.25
percent loan increased to 6.25 percent or 7.25 percent in the
following year. This is another violation of Section 46 of the National
Currency Act. It is unlawful for a bank to provide such a loan where
usury/interest can frequently change past the initial rate when the
note was accepted. If the Express Trust were to bring this type of suit
into a court of equity, the alleged debt would be adjudged as a forfeit.
And be it further enacted, That all transfer of the notes, bonds,
bills of exchange, and other evidences of debt owing to any
association, or of deposits to its credit; all assignments of
mortgages, sureties on real estate, or of judgments or decrees in
its favor; all deposits of money, bullion, or other valuable thing
for its use, or for the use of any of its shareholders or creditors;
and all payments of money to either, made after the commission
of an act of insolvency, or in contemplation thereof, with a view
to prevent the application of its assets in the manner prescribed
by this act, or with a view to the preference of one creditor to
another, except in payment of its circulating notes, shall be
utterly null and void.
(Section 49 – National Currency Act of 1863)
Insolvency is defined as the inability to pay a debt or obligation.
When referring to mortgages, it is within God's ordinances that his
trust beneficiaries do not accept mortgages. Confirmed in Proverbs
22:26,
Be not one of those who shakes hands in a pledge, One of those
who is surety for debts;
(New King James Version)
The word surety in Hebrew is Arab, meaning mortgage and the
etymology of mortgage comes from the Old French word "morgage,"
literally meaning "dead pledge." Mort "dead" and gage "pledge"
because mortgages are designed for constant refinancing on the
property, which resets the amortization payment schedule in terms
of term length. The alleged homeowner is under the impression they
are 
making 
payments, 
principal, 
and 
interest 
towards
homeownership upon final payment of the mortgage. In all actuality,
the Deeds of Trust or Warranty Deeds clearly state that the alleged
homeowner is making "leasehold payments" and "ground rents" as
leasehold tenants. The State of Maryland provides ground rent
detail. In the Greater-Baltimore area, ground rent is a periodic
monetary payment by a tenant to a ground leaseholder who holds a
reversionary interest in the property or "ground" underneath a
home. Specific terms and conditions are contingent on the actual
language of the ground lease. Still, such a lease often require
payment from the lessee (homeowner) of between $50-$150 per
year, commonly paid in semi-annual installments. In practical effect,
a homeowner who is subject to a ground rent must make payment to
a ground leaseholder for the right to dwell on the property. The
property's absolute management and control remain with the
leasehold tenant so long as the ground rent is paid (Beehler v. Ijams,
72 Md. 193 (1890)).
Consequently, the leasehold tenant has the authority to alter,
remodel and reconstruct the property as he/she wills. The tenant
must still ensure that their actions leave the reversioner's rent secure
(Crowe v. Wilson, 65 Md. 479, 484 (1886)). The alleged homeowner
is responsible for maintaining the land and any improvements on the
land, including improvements made to the home itself (Kolker v.
Biggs, 203 Md. 137, 141 (1953)). It is the alleged homeowner's “sole”
responsibility to procure and make the payment on any utilities that
service the property. In addition to the "Failure To Disclose
Information" the banks’ misleading statements within the note,
states that the alleged homeowner will pay leasehold payments as
tenants instead of payments toward proper ownership, would
automatically position the alleged homeowner in a state of
insolvency. In this case, the argument is self-explanatory, as the
plaintiff cannot fulfill a promise to pay attached to a misleading Deed
of Trust or Warranty Deed. Title 23 – Equity – Georgia Code § 23-2-
52 – Misrepresentation as Legal Fraud, states,
Misrepresentation of a material fact, made willfully to deceive or
recklessly without knowledge and acted on by the opposite party
or made innocently and mistakenly and acted on by the opposite
party, constitutes legal fraud.
Furthermore, when the mortgage is sold or transferred to
another creditor or lender atop the insolvency claim, it further
provides a stronger case for violation of Section 49 of the National
Currency Act, and the Express Trust would have the chancellor in
equity court deem the evidence of debt null and void. The ground
rents and leasehold payments are compiled inside the county
property tax payment. If the tenant(s) do not pay the leaseholder, the
county will foreclose the property despite the mortgage amount.
Taxes trump mortgages and trust ownership trumps taxes because
trust could never hold the status of a tenant in commons but only a
natural person with fee simple title. In many counties, the actual
ground leaseholder is listed within the property's legal description,
referring to the ground underneath the property. For example,
- EXCEPTING ALL MINERALS, OIL, GAS AND OTHER
HYDROCARBON SUBSTANCES BELOW A DEPTH OF 500 FEET
WITHOUT RIGHT OF SURFACE ENTRY AS RESERVED BY
CORPORATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE SAN BERNARDINO
STAKE OF THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY
SAINTS, A CORPORATION SOLE, IN DOCUMENT RECORDED
SEPTEMBER 22, 1983 AS INSTRUMENT NO. 19XXX7, OFFICIAL
RECORDS.
Many patriots attempt to raise allegations of property
trespassing against the banks and other corporations in courts "at
law" and most assuredly always lose the case due to suing in the
wrong capacity. Equity suits must rely on the use of a natural person,
the Express Trust, and not as the individual, John Doe Smith. John
Smith is a fourteenth amendment person who, according to section 5
of the amendment, Congress has the power to enforce the provisions
of the amendment by appropriate legislation. That particular
legislation is Section 4, which clearly states that no fourteenth
amendment person can question the public debt's validity
(mortgages, taxes, and loans). Understanding that most courts
currently in business in America are, by the 1933 change in the
operation of law, courts of limited jurisdiction, limited to cases
involving subject-matter of the fourteenth amendment public trust,
it becomes clear that whether they are distinguished as federal courts
or state courts, such is a distinction without a fundamental difference
they are inherently federal. To get at how such courts may obtain
jurisdiction over an Express Trust or its trustee(s) in legal action, the
nature of jurisdiction should be brief but sufficiently examined.
First, a court must have three essentials: jurisdiction to
determine jurisdiction, jurisdiction over the subject-matter of the
case (i.e., it must have the power/competence to decide the kind of
controversy involved), and jurisdiction over the parties to the case;
and any order, decree or judgment, other than dismissal, by such a
court is void ab initio, having only the semblance or appearance of
validity, and may be attached directly or collaterally and vacated at
any time.
See Morris v. Gilmer, 129 U.S. 315, 326-327 (1889). Once a
judge has knowledge that subject-matter jurisdiction is lacking, he
has no discretion but to dismiss the action, and failure to do so
subjects the judge to personal liability.
The Express Trust's jurisdiction can only be given to the court if
the trust does not pass the court and control test. The control and
court test are not met if one or more United States Persons does not
have the authority to control all substantial decisions of the trust. No
person has the power to veto any of the substantial decisions. This is
why the Express Trust must have a sole foreign trustee at all times to
maintain the trust as foreign from the United States. A guide to
create a perfectly valid Express Trust instrument that can be
registered within the probate court as a continuous open probate
case in the Settlor's name or, depending on the state, within the
county recorder's office will be reviewed on the following page. Every
state/country is different from the next and it’s laws recording
Express Trust varies and will require in-depth study.
DECLARATION OF TRUST
Est. Month Day Year at Time
THIS INDENTURE (“Agreement”) made this XX day of Month,
Year serves as a Declaration of Express Trust and shall continue for a
term 
of 
twenty-five 
(25) 
years 
from 
this 
day, 
between
CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER WELLINGTON herein known as the
Settlor and Trust Protector, (the first party) and AHMED-EL BEN
Sole Trustee, herein known as the First Trustee or Trustee, (the
second party), under the name of HEINZ WOLFGANG EXPRESS
TRUST d/b/a HEINZ WOLFGANG. With this contract, the Parties
intend to create an Express Trust Organization for the benefit of the
Trust Certificate Unit Holders and to identify, accumulate, purchase
and hold any assets that become available and to provide for a
prudent administration and distribution system administered by
legal persons acting in a fiduciary capacity.
WITNESSETH: Whereas the Settlor, irrevocably assigns and
conveys to the Trustee, in trust, specific properties as defined in The
Trustee Minutes (X-1234), attached to this document in exchange for
one hundred (100) units of Beneficial Interest, known hereto as
Trust Certificate Units (TCUs) to be held with this Indenture by the
Trustees for the Beneficiaries also known as Members of HEINZ
WOLFGANG EXPRESS TRUST d/b/a HEINZ WOLFGANG.
Trust: “Trust” includes an Express Trust, private or charitable,
with additions thereto, wherever and however created.
Property: “Property” means anything that may be the subject of
ownership and includes both real and personal property.
Person: “Person” means any natural person, individual,
corporation, government or governmental subdivision or agency,
business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company,
association, or other entity.
Settlor: 
CHRISTOPHER 
ALEXANDER 
WELLINGTON 
–
(defined) in law a settlor is a person who settles property in trust
law for the benefit of beneficiaries. In some legal systems, a settlor
is also referred to as a trustor or occasionally, a grantor or donor... A
settlor may create a trust manifesting an intention to create it;
grantor is the person who creates the trust.
Trust Protector: CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER WELLINGTON
or other authorized person in the future by settlor, - (defined)
appointed under the trust instrument to direct, restrain, remove the
trustee(s) or appoint a successor.
Trustee(s): AHMED-EL BEN – (defined) includes an original,
additional, or successor trustee, whether or not appointed or
confirmed by a court. A person or firm that holds or administers
property or assets for the benefit of a third party and can be given the
powers to make investment decisions for the Trust, or vote on the
distribution of assets to the beneficiaries and/or has the power to
hire persons whether an authorized person or not, including
accountants, attorneys, auditors, investment advisers, appraisers or
other agents even if they are associated or affiliated with the
trustee, to advise or assist the trustee in the performance of
administrative duties.
Beneficial Owner: HEINZ WOLFGANG herein known as the
First Beneficiary and other beneficiaries to come in future (defined)
beneficial owner is where specific property rights (“use and title”)
in equity belong to a person even though legal title of the property
belongs to another person. This often relates where the legal title
owner has implied trustee duties to the beneficial owner.
WHEREAS, the Trust Organization is authorized to exist and
function through its Board of Trustees, comprised of the total active
number of trustees who are legal persons holding fee simple title, not
differentiating between legal and equitable, not as individuals, but
collectively as the Board, according to the inalienable Common Law
rights.
WHEREAS, the Trust shall be amendable, as described in the
bylaws, and shall be irrevocable by the Settlor or by any other person
or entity but said trustee can be fired by the Trust Protector and
replace by new trustee appointed by the Trust Protector. It is the
intention of the Settlor to make the Beneficiaries, an absolute gift of
the Trust Certificate Units (TCUs), in which the Beneficiaries shall
not have any vested interest, until the termination of this Trust and
final distribution accumulated assets or any early distribution of the
assets thereof. There shall be exactly 100 Trust Certificate Units
(TCUs) available to the Beneficiaries.
WHEREAS, the Trust shall be administered, managed, governed
and regulated in all respects applicable to Common Law jurisdiction
of California, the Uniform Prudent Investors Act (UPIA), the
Uniform Trustees Powers Act, Treaty of Marrakesh, Treaty of Tripoli,
the Constitution of the United States of America and the Uniform
Commercial Code (only when and if applicable and/or allowable to
remain under the jurisdiction of the Common Law). The domicile of
the Trust is within the Court of Equity, in California in the Republic
of the United States of America as a last resort when everything else
fails.
Last Name, First Name Middle Settlor/Trust Protector Date
Last Name, First Name Middle Sole Trustee Date
DECLARATION OF TRUST
Est. Month Day Year at Time
TRUSTEE MINUTES: X-1234
HEINZ WOLFGANG
(An Irrevocable Express Trust Organization)
Date: Weekday, Month Day, Year
The Settlor appoints Wellington, Christopher Alexander as the
Trust Protector (first party) being present accepted the appointment
and acceptance of Trust Property.
The Settlor appoints Ahmed-El Ben as the First Trustee or
Trustee (second party) being present accepted the appointment and
affixed their signature below.
Trustee called the meeting to order and affirmed that officially on
Month Day, Year the Trust was established and all Personal
Property, whether Tangible or Intangible and all “In Real Property”
located in California or any other State, received now or in future, is
held in Trust. The Sole Trustee’s acceptance is listed on Schedule A
and the Personal Property is listed on Schedule B.
Trustee approved the initial exchange of the specific property for
one hundred (100) units of Beneficial Interest, known hereto as
Trust Certificate Units (TCUs) to be held with this Indenture by the
Trustees for the Beneficiaries also known as Members of HEINZ
WOLFGANG EXPRESS TRUST d/b/a HEINZ WOLFGANG.
The TRUSTEE shall:
1. Keep minutes of all future business meetings and Board of
Trustee meetings
2. Act in the best interest of all Trust Certificate Unit Holders
through prudent record keeping of certificate transfers
and other business respecting the holders and this Express
Trust.
Being no other business before the Board, the meeting was
adjourned.
Principal place of Meeting: Dam 9, 1012 JS Amsterdam,
Netherlands
This shall serve as our written acknowledgement and acceptance
of the office as appointed herein this Weekday, Month Day, Year.
DECLARATION OF TRUST
Est. Month Day Year at Time
Schedule A: Trustee Minutes X-1234
Appointment of a Trustee
Minutes of Meeting of
HEINZ WOLFGANG
(An Irrevocable Express Trust Organization)
“Time”:
Date: Weekday, Month Day, Year
Persons Present: Settlor & Sole Trustee
Business Conducted: Appointment of Trusteeship
1. The Sole Trustee (second party) met with the Settlor
and 
Trust 
Protector, 
Wellington, 
Christopher
Alexander (first party) regarding his appointment as
Sole Trustee of the HEINZ WOLFGANG EXPRESS
TRUST d/b/a HEINZ WOLFGANG, an Irrevocable
Express Trust Organization.
2. After discussion, it was mutually agreed that; Ahmed-
El Ben would accept the appointment as Sole Trustee
by contract.
3. The following action was taken as a result of that
agreement. The acceptance agreement described herein
on the “Schedule A: Trustee Minutes X-1234” was
signed and these minutes were entered into the Trust
records.
There being no further business to come before the Officers of
the Trust, the meeting was adjourned at “Time.”
Last Name, First Name Middle Name Sole Trustee Date
DECLARATION OF TRUST
Est. Month Day Year at Time
Schedule B: Trustee Minutes X-1234
Minutes of Meeting
Other Property Exchange – Non-Real Estate Assets
HEINZ WOLFGANG
(An Irrevocable Express Trust Organization)
At this meeting, the Board of Trustees of the HEINZ
WOLFGANG EXPRESS TRUST, held in Los Angeles, California on
this XX day of Month, Year, with the Sole Trustee being present, by
unanimous accord, the following was affirmed and ratified, vis:
1. All personal property, whether Tangible or Intangible
located in California, received now or in the future is now
held in trust.
2. The Trustee has authorized the Authorized Representative
to warehouse the Trust’s non-Real Estate property
wherever the Authorized Representative deems to be the
safest and most convenient location to manage said
property.
The Settlor, Wellington, Christopher Alexander (first party) by
gift of the following said Personal Property to the Sole Trustee
(second party) is now held in Trust for the beneficiaries:
a. Fifty ounces of Au
b. Two Hundred ounces of Ag
c. 35% XAU mining stock
d. Foreign Currency: Vietnam Dong and Iraqi Dinar
(Central Bank of Iraq)
e. All 
accounts 
in 
the 
name 
CHRISTOPHER
ALEXANDER Family of WELLINGTON ESTATE d/b/a
CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER WELLINGTON
There being no further business to come before the Officers of
the Trust, the meeting was adjourned at “Time.”
Last Name, First Name Middle Name Sole Trustee Date
This concludes the drafting of a functional Declaration of Trust.
A proof of service signed under penalty of perjury under the laws of
the united States of America (28 U.S.C. § 1746(1)) and a state-
approved Notary Certificate of Acknowledgment would accompany
the declaration as to its last two pages.
An adequately registered foreign Express Trust can give the trust
access to top offshore bank accounts. Most offshore banks are closed
to Americans. 95% of the best foreign banks have shut their doors to
Americans because of the costly reporting now required by the I.R.S.
The only way to get into the best banks is through the back door. The
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act now requires banks to spend
hundreds of millions on computer generate annual reports that go to
the I.R.S. Foreign banks have stricter compliance and U.S. reporting
requirements than U.S. banks. The bottom line is no top tier foreign
bank wants to do business with an American holding a U.S. Passport,
at least not directly. The back door into these top offshore banks is a
foreign trust. The national from the U.S.A., the settlor and owner of
the assets in the structure, would then appoint the foreign trustee to
protect the assets for the heirs' benefit. The trustee would then hire
an investment advisor, usually based in Switzerland. This person has
master accounts at the largest investment banks and can obtain
access with scrutiny. The foreign trust can use its capital to buy a
private placement life insurance policy or a High Cash Value Whole
Life Insurance Policy on the settlor. Any gains inside the policy
which is owned by the trust are tax-deferred until liquidated. If never
closed, then the money passes to the beneficiaries tax-free.
In conclusion, the Express Trust is a powerful weapon that has
promoted generational wealth and the ultimate protection against
corporate discrimination and fraud upon trust property. At this
particular time, the world has come subject to the ramifications of
the world economic pandemic, known as the Corona Virus (COVID-
19), which is currently undergoing new strands of mutation. The
vaccine is not currently mandatory by the government for everyone
to be inoculated; however, major corporations, such as United
Airlines, are preparing to issue mandatory vaccination efforts to their
employees. It will be the corporations, not the government, which
will cause discomfort to everyday consumers when it comes to
normal life activities. Many schools of thought believe the vaccine
has yet to be tested long enough to be trusted. As of January 15,
2021, 181 people have died from taking the COVID-19 vaccination
per the Vaccine Adverse Event Reporting System (VAERS). The
VAERS reports describe outcomes ranging from "foaming at the
mouth" to massive heart attacks." A Miami obstetrician, Dr. Gregory
Michael, suffered from a hemorrhagic stroke after receiving
Pfizer/BioNtech's COVID vaccine. He died two weeks later. Pfizer
stated that it didn't believe there were any direct connections to the
vaccine; however, data regarding deaths are emerging from Israel,
Norway, Portugal, Sweden, and Switzerland with fatal outcomes.
Another public figure, Henry Louis Aaron, nicknamed "Hammer" or
"Hammerin' Hank," was an American professional baseball right
fielder who played 23 seasons in Major League Baseball. Aaron
himself surpassed Babe Ruth as he closed in on the 714 career home
runs record. He had received the COVID-19 vaccination on January
5, 2021, at the Morehouse School of Medicine in Atlanta, Georgia. He
and several other "African American" public figures, including
activist Joe Beasley, Andrew Young, and Louis Sullivan, did so to
demonstrate the vaccine's safety and encourage other Black
Americans (i.e., Moors) to do the same. Aaron died just weeks later,
on January 22, 2021, at 86, conveniently listed as natural causes.
Pharma and Federal agencies are attributing the majority of these
cases to "coincidence." Amid this devastating news, Congress
members have passed legislation for mandatory vaccinations to all
children who attend public and secondary schools. This legislation is
coming from the 116th Congress, 1st Session, H.R. 2527 on May 3,
2019, for a State or political subdivision to be eligible to receive
"grants," not for the well-being of the children. The bill is as follows,
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
This Act may be cited as the "Vaccinate All Children Act of 2019."
SEC. 2. REQUIRING STUDENTS AT PUBLIC ELEMENTARY
AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS TO BE VACCINATED.
1. Requirement. – Section 317 of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 247b) is amended by adding at the end of
the following:
(n) Requiring Students at Public Elementary and Secondary
Schools To Be Vaccinated. –
"(1) REQUIREMENT. – For a State or a political subdivision or
other public entity of a State to be eligible to receive a grant under
this section, the applicant shall demonstrate to the Secretary's
satisfaction that, subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the State requires
each student enrolled in one of the State's public elementary schools
or public secondary schools to be vaccinated in accordance with the
recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization
Practices.
All this to say, if it ever comes to the point of mandatory
vaccination, the Express Trust provides a veil of protection. If such a
one chose not to receive the COVID-19 vaccine due to uncertainties;
no State or corporation may violate a private contract such as the
Declaration of Trust. The Express Trust would sue any corporation in
equity court, should any corporation bring about discrimination with
claims such as,
"The equity under trust or contract for value is superior to that of
a mere volunteer;"
(Georgia Code § 23-1-13)
"When one of two innocent persons must suffer by the act of a
third person, he who put it in the power of the third person to
inflict the injury shall bear the loss;"
(Georgia Code § 23-1-14)
"No National emergency or Executive Order, including but not
limited to The Act of October 6th, 1917, as amended [12 U.S.C.
Sec, 95a] March 9, 1933, shall nullify any of the Constitutional
Protections of this "Trust Estate." "No Emergency justifies a
violation of any constitutional provision." 16 Am Jur 2nd Ed.71,
72 "The prohibitions of the federal constitution are designed to
apply to all branches of the national government and cannot be
nullified by the executive and senate combined;"
(Reid v. Covert, ant, U.S. 1,1-Ed 2nd 1148 (1951))
"Actual fraud consists of any kind of artifice by which another is
deceived. Constructive fraud consists of any act of omission or
commission, contrary to legal or equitable duty, trust, or
confidence justly reposted, which is contrary to good conscience
and operates to the injury of another;"
(Georgia Code § 23-2-51(b))
Preserving and keeping the wealth earned and held in Express
Trust should be entrusted to the Sole Trustee to deposit into the
foreign bank account, whether offshore or within the united States of
America. The trustee may open any business checking account,
financial account, trust account, etc., which he/she is authorized by
the declaration to open, but he/she must keep in mind that by doing
so, the trust will participate directly in that unincorporated interstate
banking association with all its limited-liability consequences. There
is only one type of account that avoids those consequences, which is
the non-interest bearing account. The trustee can ask the banker to
select this option when setting up the account. When utilized in
conjunction with the following banking practices, the trust and the
trustee will remain out of public policy –
Never contract for any credit cards, lines of credit, or C.D.s
and if the trust has already obtained them, rescind and
cancel the contracts;
Open a non-interest bearing checking account to avoid the
"privileges and immunities" associated with interest;
Maintain the minimum required balance at all times;
Use the trust account solely for depositing checks or
money orders when transacting business;
Never send or allow checks to be sent across state lines
without a DBA in that state;
Instead of writing checks, use postal money orders or the
bank's corporate certified checks or corporate money
orders when sending interstate payments; and
Use a bonded or non-bonded agent to establish the
account on behalf of the trustee.
As mentioned before, domestic banks within the United States
backed by the F.D.I.C., cannot do business with any foreign tax
identifying number which does not have an SSN/ITIN in correlation
with it. Therefore, another Trust EIN will need to be obtained in the
trust's name. Using Mr. Wellington as the example, the following
essential steps should be applied via the online EIN application for
his trust affairs.
1. Identity: Select “Trust”
1. Identity: Select “Irrevocable Trust”
2. Authenticate: Enter “Full birth name and social security
number as the responsible party”
2. Authenticate: Again Enter “Full birth name as the co-
trustee”
3. Address: Enter “Full private mailing address”
4. Details: Enter “HEINZ WOLFGANG EXPRESS TRUST
as the Legal Trust Name, followed by the county and state
of place of business and month and year trust was
established.”
4. Details: Select “No as there are no employees”
5. EIN Confirmation: Select “Receive Letter Online”
The new Trust EIN should have a 6/7 Million Series following
the dash which means the entity is tax exempt under TEFRA laws.
When opening a non-interest bearing trust account, the I.R.S. Form
W-9 should be given to the bank manager with TEFRA provided in
both sections of box 4. Just as the estate utilizes a corporate seal, the
trust should have its own seal attached to the Declaration of Trust
and the Trust Certification. The Declaration of Trust is more a
private document kept in a safe place but the Trust Certification
mirrors key information from the declaration and can be disbursed
within the public. It should be given to the bank to open the non-
interest bearing trust account. Most banks will attempt to convert
the Express Trust from a Common Law jurisdiction to the United
States jurisdiction by not accepting the Trust Certification and using
the banks internal forms. In the event of this occurring, simply copy
the written language from the declaration and certification to the
banks internal form stating,
“WHEREAS, the Trust Organization is authorized to exist and
function through its Board of Trustees, comprised of the total active
number of trustees who are legal persons holding fee simple title, not
differentiating between legal and equitable, not as individuals, but
collectively as the Board, according to the inalienable Common Law
rights.”
Corporate seal selection for a trust can be anything, however
selecting a familiar insigne that the U.S. government would recognize
is ideal. Only two insigne’s would suffice as a recognizable seal. They
are the exact seals the various Sheriff departments use under
Moroccan treaty law; the Seal of David or the Seal of Solomon.
Analyzing the Sheriff's badge of the County of San Bernardino and
the badge of the County of Riverside will reveal which trust the two
county Sheriff’s are subjected to. Riverside County is under the Seal
of David and San Bernardino County is under the Seal of Solomon.
The Express Trust must do the same. Further evidence and research
of the Sheriff's governed authority can be found in Morocco (General
Act of Algeciras), signed April 7, 1906. Chapter 1, page 467, reads,
Declaration relative to the organization of the police
Article 1. The conference summoned by His Majesty the Sultan to
pronounce on the measures necessary to organize the police
declares that the following provisions should be made;
Article 2. The police shall be under the sovereign authority of His
Majesty the Sultan. It shall be recruited by the Maghzen from
Moorish Mohamedans, commanded by Moorish Kaids, and
distributed in the eight ports open to commerce.
Article 3. In order to aid the Sultan in the organization of this
police, Spanish officers and noncommissioned officers as
instructors, and French officers and noncommissioned officers as
instructors, shall be placed at His disposal by their respective
Governments, which shall submit their designation to the
approval of His Shereefian Majesty.
(34 Stat. 2905; Treaty Series 456)
Every State, County, Province, City, Town or any municipal
police force is under that municipality’s Shereefian Majesty, who is
submitted unto the Sultan, which explains the specific seal types
worn over the Sheriff’s heart in uniform. The Sheriff is likened to the
President of his/her respective county.
The trust account serves as a close access account to preserve any
financial assets from any future financial crisis or depressions by
enrolling the trust account EIN under the foreign 98 tax identifying
number using I.R.S. Form 8832.
Last but not least, due attention must be paid to the Internal
Revenue Service, for they are the lawful, legal entity, duly authorized
to collect association dues (income taxes) from fourteenth
amendment citizens and other persons volunteering and availing
themselves of the "privileges and immunities" regarding non-
payment of debts in the system implanted under former H.J. Res, 12
U.S.C. § 95a, and 15 U.S.C., Ch. 41, §1602(c)(d)(e). It may come as a
shock; the I.R.S. also refunds foreign trust all of their business
expenses related to all forms of indirect inflation, taxes or interest
applied to payments through the tax year. The process of filing taxes
under the foreign Express Trust to receive its annual business
expenses as a payment to the trust from the Internal Revenue Service
may be delivered in another writing in the near future. It is always
advised to seek the counsel of a tax professional for any filing with
any entity type.
The only way to thrive in the twenty-first century North America
is to "own nothing but control everything." And though any trustee is
the legal owner of the property in trust, the trustee(s) of Express
Trusts do not experience the incidents of personal ownership due to
properly limited liability via trust instrument and the utter
shrewdness of the trustee(s). Under the Express Trust, the trustee is
clothed in a veil impenetrable but from within. This suit of armor is
the trust instrument, which molds the trustee in all of their good-
faith dealings on behalf of the trust, all without the excessive weight
of inquisitorial legislation. When one is a trustee, he is in a fiduciary
position looked upon with respect for the position's integrity.
Usually, there are three prominent positions (settlor, trustee, and
beneficiary) fulfilled by at least two persons in trust. The settlor can
be the trustee, trust protector but never the beneficiary, fulfilling all
three prominent positions. The trustee can be a beneficiary and trust
protector but never the settlor, also fulfilling all three prominent
positions. However, private Express Trust has utilized the term
"sole" to acquire a position while escaping the judgment of a "sham
trust," meanwhile surpassing the United States court and control
test. For example, Mr. Wellington can be the settlor, trust protector,
co-trustee, and "sole" beneficiary. A sole beneficiary is an entity
designated to receive all of the assets associated with the trust. As
long as the foreign trustee has accepted the position of "sole" trustee
and not fulfilling any positions as a beneficiary, Mr. Wellington can
perform limited duties as a co-trustee delegated to him by the sole
trustee. For a sole beneficiary to exist, Mr. Wellington must include
other beneficiaries within the trust. These very rules are
substantiated by biblical treaty law that fully protects the trust in
honor and allows it to be the only Zero Percent tax bracket strategy
that does not rely on ever-changing tax-cut codes and statutes or
retirement. The Express Trust under foreign jurisdiction within
equity or chancery court will provide asset and family protection,
rightful claim to one's estates (inheritance), actual ownership and
control of land and property, and generational wealth.
The Americas are a part of the Mehomitan Nation (Morocco;
ancient Egypt) with descendible inheritance for all who choose to
operate in God's ordinances within the biblical treaty expressed by
trust instrumentation. About Moroccan-American history relations,
dating back to the late eighteenth century, the Sultan Sidi
Muhammad Ben Abdellah issued a declaration in December 1777,
asking the Americans to conclude with his majesty (Great Britain) a
treaty of peace and friendship. President Joe Biden, former Vice-
President under President Barrack Obama, stated this fact at the
Global Entrepreneurship Summit in Marrakech, Morocco, on
November 20, 2014. Surprisingly, the decree has its roots with
ancient Egypt and the Great Pharaoh alongside his governor Joseph,
as written in the book of Genesis in the bible, for the sole purpose of
developing the inheritance held within all the Tribes of Israel, here in
the Americas. To connect the dots between the United States and
ancient Egypt, an imperative article is reviewed within the Moroccan
World News, titled Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdellah's Diplomatic
Initiatives towards the U.S., written on March 20, 2012. The title
Sultan and Pharaoh are semantically related, with the title Sultan
being derived from Old French Souldan or Soudan. Before reading
the article, keep in mind the previous understanding of Quebec
Louisiana, a "country" in North America and a former French
Empire colony, with territories covering a vast majority of North
America and some lands in Ontario to the Great Lakes of Canada.
The article reads,
One main direct reason behind the sultan’s interest in the
Americans can be traced back to early I766, when the Sultan
released a ‘fatwa’ concerning the exportation of wheat to
Europeans through the port of Fdala, which the sultan built for
that particular purpose. The sultan allowed his people to sell
their crops, especially wheat, to Europeans, who in turn, bought
and shipped large amounts of wheat and food supplies abroad. In
this context, the exportation of wheat increased between I770
and I774 towards Portugal, Spain and France. In I774, 100.000
quintal (quintar) of wheat was exported to Spain and almost the
same quantity was exported to France. Indeed, the exportation of
wheat to Europe affected the whole country especially after
successive years of drought. The rain did not fall for over seven
years from I776 to I783, and the swarms of locust came from the
south and completely destroyed crops. The country knew serious
food crisis due to the plague of locusts and drought. The prices of
wheat increased rapidly, and poor people were unable to buy
enough amounts. According to the French consul Louis de
Chenier in one of his letters, the reserves of wheat decreased in
stores and its price increased three times in I775. Louis de
Chenier describes the chaotic situation of Morocco in detail. He
describes the effects of a series of famines, which brought about
infectious diseases, plagues of locusts and successive years of
drought. The locusts ravaged the empire of Morocco, especially
after the year I778. In I779, the quantity of young locusts eaten
up the whole country, and nothing that is green on earth could
escape the voracity of these insects. The consequences of swarms
of locusts and successive years of drought were so fatal. The
lands produced no harvest, and the people began to feel a dearth.
Their cattle died with hunger. People perished of indigestible
food and want. Fathers sold their children, and husbands
bestowed their wives in marriage. The sultan’s exportation of
wheat and food supplies to Europeans worsened the situation of
the country and made the crisis more serious. The export of
wheat to the Sultan’s need for firearms, suggesting that when S.
Muhammad had sufficient weaponry, he no longer allowed the
sale of grain. In fact, the sultan stopped exporting wheat and
food supplies to Europe because he realized the serious food
crisis that the whole country was enduring. He released a ‘fatwa’
through which he forbade exporting wheat to Europeans. Then,
he issued a declaration on December 20, I777, announcing that
all Europeans and American vessels could freely import wheat to
Morocco. The sultan declared that all vessels importing food
supplies from Europe and especially America would not pay
taxes or tributes in his ports. The sultan Sidi Muhammad III was
neither looking for the friendship of the Americans nor to
recognize their independence in I777. But, he was rather trying to
get support from Americans and Europeans to overcome the food
crisis of the country, just as the Americans were looking for
support from France to get their independence. Moreover, the
sultan renewed the maritime trade through establishing
diplomatic relations with Americans and Europeans. For this
purpose, he encouraged the presence of American and European
vessels in coastal cities. He built new cities with big ports and big
ships and frigates to fight corsairs. The sultan rebuilt the port of
Anfa in I760, the port of Mogador in I765, expelled the
Portuguese from the port of Brija. He also regained the control
over the port of Agadir.
The Sultan (Pharaoh) endured a harsh dearth (famine) and is
expressed in great detail in the book of Genesis 41:28-36, which
reads,
This is the thing which I (Joseph) have spoken to Pharaoh. God
has shown Pharaoh what He is about to do. Indeed seven years of
great plenty will come throughout all the land of Egypt; but after
them seven years of famine will arise, and all the plenty will be
forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine will deplete the
land. So the plenty will not be known in the land because of the
famine following, for it will be very severe. And the dream was
repeated to Pharaoh twice because the thing is established by
God, and God will shortly bring it to pass. Now therefore, let
Pharaoh select a discerning and wise man, and set him over the
land of Egypt. Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers
over the land, to collect one-fifth of the produce of the land of
Egypt in the seven plentiful years. And let them gather all the
food of those good years that are coming, and store up grain
under the authority of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the
cities. Then that food shall be as a reserve for the land for the
seven years of famine which shall be in the land of Egypt, that the
land may not perish during the famine.
Verse 39-42, Then Pharaoh said to Joseph, “Inasmuch as God
has shown you all this, there is no one as discerning and wise as
you. You shall be over my house, and all my people shall be ruled
according to your word; only in regard to the throne will I be
greater than you. And Pharaoh said to Joseph, “See, I have set
you over all of the land of Egypt.” Then Pharaoh took his signet
ring off his hand and put it on Joseph’s hand; and he clothed him
in garments of fine linen and put a gold chain around his neck.
Verse 46-49, Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before
Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence
of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt. Now in
the seven plentiful years the ground brought forth abundantly.
So he gathered up all the food of the seven years which were in
the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities; he laid up
every city the food of the fields which surrounded them. Joseph
gathered very much grain, as the sand of the sea, until he
stopped counting for it was immeasurable.
Verse 53-57, Then the seven years of plenty which were in the
land of Egypt ended, and the seven years of famine began to
come, as Joseph has said. The famine was in all lands, but in all
the land of Egypt there was bread. So when all the land of Egypt
was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread. Then
Pharaoh said to all the Egyptians, “Go to Joseph; whatever he
says to you, do.” The famine was over all the face of the earth,
and Joseph opened all the storehouses and sold to the Egyptians.
And the famine became sever in the land of Egypt. So all the
countries came to Joseph in Egypt to buy grain, because the
famine was severe in all lands.
Pharaoh’s governor, Joseph, was the foremost diplomat for all
countries of all the earth to receive grain in exchange for lawful
money on behalf of Pharaoh (Sultan) to survive the upcoming seven-
year famine (dearth) and drought, that Joseph interpreted based on
the vision given to Pharaoh by God. Joseph’s position would
eventually lead to his eleven brothers (of the Tribes of Israel),
including his father Jacob, to settle in Egypt's best lots (parishes),
known as Goshen. Genesis 46:4-6 states that Jacob, alongside all his
descendants, all goods and livestock went down into the land of
Egypt from the land of Canaan. The word “down” in verse 4 is the
Hebrew word “yarad,” literally meaning to go downwards, or
conventionally to a lower region, going south. The land of Canaan is
what is known today as the land of Canada, and directly below it is
North America, formerly known as ancient Egypt. Joseph enters the
seven-year famine and begins to collect tribute as a means for seed,
time, and harvest to all those under the jurisdiction of Pharaoh
stated in Genesis 47:23-26, which reads,
Then Joseph said to the people, “Indeed I have brought you and
your land this day for Pharaoh. Look, here is seed for you, and
you shall sow the land. And it shall come to pass in the harvest
that you shall give one-fifth to Pharaoh. Four-fifths shall be your
own, as seed for the field and for your food, for those of your
households and as food for your little ones. So they said, “You
have saved our lives; lets us find favor in the sight of my lord, and
we will be Pharaoh’s servants.” And Joseph made it a law over
the land of Egypt to this day, that Pharaoh should have on-fifth,
except for the land of the priests only, which did not become
Pharaoh’s.
The famine under the rule of Sultan (Pharaoh) described in
Morocco (ancient Egypt; the Americas) began in I776 full of
starvation, disease, drylands, and no harvesting of crops throughout
all the earth, and ended in I783, precisely seven years. This seven-
year span from I776 to I783 is significant to highlight when piecing
the timeline together. In remembrance of the Treaty of Marrakesh, it
is written that,
On February 20, I778, the Pharaoh issued a declaration notifying
all consuls and European merchants in Tangier, Sale, and
Mogador that, “henceforth all vessels flying the American flag
might freely enter the Moroccan (ancient Egypt; the Americas)
ports and enjoy in them the same privileges and immunities with
those of the other nations with whom Morocco maintains
“peace.” In response to the Pharaoh’s initiative, the United States
Congress established a committee to write the draft of the
agreement that took a few years to enact.
(Treaty of Marrakesh, I202 (1787))
The seven-year famine is why the enactment of the U.S. Congress
committee “took a few years” to be established. All countries and
consuls of the earth were undergoing the magnifications of the
drought and severe famines. The Treaty of Marrakesh, referred to as
the Treaty of Peace and Friendship, the first document of its kind,
was finally drafted by Ben-Yamin Franklin in Paris of I785, to be
signed in I786, a ratification date of July 18, I787. While Joseph of
the Mehomitan Nation (ancient Egypt; the Americas) established a
one-fifth tax on all countries, storing up goods and wheat; led to
Pharaoh (Sultan) allying with the United States, one year after the
beginning of the severe famine, to protect its dominions from the
piracy of Great Britain. The United States and other dominions were
exempt from the one-fifth tax tribute, demanded by the Sultan and
reinforced by Joseph. The Treaty of Marrakesh further clarifies,
This was while Great Britain was turning its back on the young
republic, ending its protection of all American trade ships sailing
in the Mediterranean Sea. As a result, Americans were suffering
heavy losses from the vicious pirate attacks in the area. Great
Britain (Brutish Moors) had even encouraged acts of piracy of
vessels flying the American flag. With no friends in the region
and no navy to protect its ships, the United States left
defenseless, and according to Thomas Jefferson, incapable of
exporting almost “one-third” of its wheat and “one-fourth” of
other items produced by the seven states of the union.
Such recognition and aid from Morocco to the United States in
I777 is why so many other public figures, including President Joe
Biden, acknowledged Morocco (ancient Egypt; the Americas).
Further confirmed in the Marrakesh Treaty,
The United States and Morocco being the first nation to
recognize the independence of the United States and to have
signed in I787 a treaty of friendship and cooperation, the first of
its kind concluded by the young republic.
It's interesting to note the following treaties, spawning from the
Marrakesh Treaty with a ratification date of (Arabic I202) 1787, are
available to the public; however, the Treaty of Marrakesh is a
guarded document and only obtained from the various libraries of
the United States Congress. The purpose of this hidden document is
first to conceal the accurate calendar timeline. Not knowing the exact
current year can distort real history! And second, to disconnect
people from the powerful message of the bible, which is in sync with
most recent events. If the actual timeline is obscured or rearranged,
then a lack of connection with biblical events is the only outcome.
Events that have allegedly happened thousands upon thousands of
years ago would automatically deposit a non-essential state of
perception when in all actuality, those events took place just over two
centuries ago. The Marrakesh Treaty initially implemented in
(Arabic I200) 1785, states the Arabic year of ratification to be I202
(the era of Adoni/Iahoh), to which is the English translated
ratification date of 1787, and the following document is the Treaty of
Peace of Friendship with Morocco on June 23, 1786 (Arabic I201).
One of the deceiving tactics of providing an English Gregorian
calendar date to the Arabic dating system can be seen within the
document known as the Magna Carta of I215. It would have the
reader believe it is dated the year 1215, 806 years ago, when in
actuality, the documents maritime strength relies on the initial 1786
(Arabic I201) Treaty with Morocco. Therefore, it is not the year 1215
but instead Arabic I215 (the English Gregorian year 1800), just
fifteen years from Marrakesh's initial Treaty. The Magna Carta is an
extension of the Treaty with Morocco, which is an extension of the
Treaty of Marrakesh. Section 41 of the Magna Carta states,
All merchants may enter or leave England unharmed and
without fear, and may stay or travel within it, by land or water,
for purposes of trade, free from all illegal exactions, in
accordance with ancient and lawful customs. This, however, does
not apply in time of war to merchants from a country that is at
war with us. Any such merchants found in our country at the
outbreak of war shall be detained without injury to their persons
or property, until we or our chief justice have discovered how our
own merchants are being treated in the country at war with us. If
our merchants are safe they shall be safe too.
A similar decree is found in section 18, of the Treaty with
Morocco,
All goods shall be weighed and examined before they are sent on
board, and to avoid all detention of Vessels, no examination shall
afterwards be made, unless it shall first be proved, that
contraband Goods have been sent on Board, in which Case the
Persons who took the contraband Goods on board shall be
punished according to the Usage and Custom of the Country and
no other Person whatever shall be injured, nor shall the Ship or
Cargo incur any Penalty or damage whatever.
Marrakesh's Treaty's final extension to take reference of is The
Royal Proclamation, with the alleged date October 7, 1763, being
twenty-two years ahead of the Marrakesh Treaty. It is easy to discern
the government's deceptive tactic in hiding the "first document,"
which spawned all the others. The Royal Proclamation begins,
Whereas We have taken into our Royal Consideration the
extensive and valuable Acquisitions in America, secured to our
Crown by the late Definitive Treaty of Peace, concluded at Paris;
the 10th Day of February last (1763);
There is the lie in plain sight. The "Definitive Treaty of Peace" is
not the Treaty of Peace and Friendship beginning in I763 but the
Treaty of Marrakesh, also known as the Treaty of Peace and
Friendship, the first document of its kind originating in I785. The
date of I763, associated with the Proclamation, is completely forged.
The Proclamation continues as the following,
And being desirous that all Our loving Subjects, as well of our
Kingdom as of our Colonies in America, may avail themselves
with all convenient Speed, of the great Benefits and Advantages
which must accrue therefrom to their Commerce, Manufactures,
and Navigation, We have thought fit, with the Advice of our Privy
Council. To issue this our Royal Proclamation, hereby to publish
and declare to all our loving Subjects, that we have, with the
Advice of our Said Privy Council, granted our Letters Patent,
under our Guest Seal of Great Britain, to erect, within the
Countries and Islands ceded and confirmed to Us by the said
Treaty, Four distinct and separate Governments, styled and
called by the names of Quebec, East Florida, West Florida and
Grenada, and limited and bounded as follows, viz.
The ninth paragraph of the Royal Proclamation utilizes the
principles of the biblical laws. It reads,
And Whereas, We are desirous, upon all occasions, to testify our
Royal Sense and Approbation of the Conduct and bravery of the
Officers and Soldiers of our Armies, and to reward the same, We
do hereby command and impower our Governors of our said
Three new Colonies, and all other our Governors of our several
Provinces on the Continent of North America, to grant without
Fee or Reward, to such reduced Officers as have served in North
America during the late War, and to such Private Soldiers as have
been or shall be disbanded in America, and are actually residing
there, and shall personally apply for the same, the following
Quantities of Lands, subject, at the Expiration of Ten Years, to
the same Quit-Rents as other Lands are subject to in the
Province within which they are granted, as also subject to the
same Conditions of Cultivation and Improvement; viz
To every Person having the Rank of a Field Officer – 5,000
Acres.
To every Captain – 3,000 Acres.
To every Subaltern or Staff Officer – 2,000 Acres.
To every Non-Commission Officer – 200 Acres.
To every Private Man – 50 Acres.
Those that have served in the army would be rewarded a couple
of thousand acres as a reward; however, every “private man” would
get 50 acres. A national who has corrected their commercial status,
obtaining a non-citizen national status certificate, would be classified
as a private man, also known as a natural person in trust. A Non-
Commission Officer (NCO) and a Private Soldier (Pte) are the same.
Non-Commissioned Officers is a military officer who has not earned
a commission. NCOs usually obtain their position of authority by
promotion through the enlisted ranks. NCOs also includes most or
all enlisted personnel, which are of the lower ranks of an officer. A
private soldier is a soldier of the lowest rank in an army or the
marines. To further solidify, a private person means any natural
person or artificial person, including a corporation, partnership,
trust, or other entity other than a Governmental Unit.
According to God’s ordinances, God demands lots (acres) of land
to all private men within God’s trust, listed in Numbers 33:54,
And you shall divide the land by lot as an inheritance among
your families; to the larger you shall give a larger inheritance,
and to the smaller you shall give a smaller inheritance; there
everyone’s inheritance shall be whatever falls to him by lot. You
shall inherit according to the tribes of your fathers.
(New King James Version)
Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Command the children of
Israel, and say to them: ‘When you come into the land of Canaan,
this is the land that shall fall to you as an inheritance – the land
of Canaan to its boundaries.
(Numbers 34:1-2 New King James Version)
Canada is the ancient land of Canaan and is with Morocco’s
(ancient Egypt, the Americas) dominions (Great Britain). Canada is
provided in the Articles of Confederation, which helped establish the
united States of America corporation after the Articles of
Association. Section 11, which reads,
Canada acceding to this confederation, and adjoining the
measures of the United States, shall be admitted into, and
entitled to all the advantages of this Union, but no other colony
shall be admitted into the same, unless such admission be agreed
to by nine States.
(Article XI.)
The Canadian Corporation is listed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (S.E.C.) in New York, New York, alongside
the Depository Trust Corporation, with a C.I.K. No. 0000230098,
Reporting File No. 033-05368 and SIC Code 8888, meaning a
foreign government to the republic united States of America. The
governor Joseph and his eleven brothers who established the twelve
Tribes of Israel in the land of modern Canada and in the Americas
have paved the way towards the establishment of the 12,000 seat
representatives from each tribe; holding plenipotentiary power
within the S.E.C. rules of Rule 144A, leading to the estate inheritance
stored in trust for anyone to claim. The treaties that shaped the
Americas were initially written in Arabic, synonymous with Latin or
the Old French language. Sultan and Pharaoh are from the Old
French Souldan or Soudan; Hebrew is from the Old French Ebreu
from Latin Hebraeus and Aramaic (Semitic) ebhrai, corresponding to
ibhri “an Israelite;” Quebec is derived from the Old French word
Quebecois, and Canada is the Latinized form of the word “village” in
an Iroquoian language. Pharaoh can also be attributed to Amir,
meaning a high title of nobility or office, used in some Muslim
countries or otherwise known as Mehomitan Nations. Governor is
from the Old French governeor meaning prince or ruler, and the
Modern French gouverneur, directly from the Latin gubernatorem.
There is so much more that can be discussed, but one thing for
sure, the world is still in biblical times, and due to reconstructed
history, many are unaware. Still, many wealthy families who utilize
biblical treaty law are very much aware. These families fully
understand that this commercial system must utilize the ens legis in
the public while the Express Trust owns and controls it in the
private. The ens legis is likened to the legal public fiction, known as
Thomas Anderson, to which Neo (the trust) utilized to enter in and
out of the public and private side of the Matrix. Very much like the
private people of Zion, unable to enter into the public side of the
Matrix, there are individuals that are not in the public system and
only operate within private markets. To immediately reach the Zero
Percent tax bracket and obtain wealth, one must declare their true
nationality as a national but not a citizen of the United States and
entirely operate in the truth of the Express Trust.
F
Acknowledgments
irst and foremost, praises and thanks to the God, the Almighty,
the Alpha and Omega, for His showers of blessings throughout
my research work to complete the research successfully.
I would like to express my deep and sincere gratitude to my
research mentor and grand master teacher in the world of history,
private process and commerce, Jonah Bey. His dynamism, vision,
sincerity and motivation to uplift fallen humanity, have deeply
inspired me to write this book with the intention of carrying on the
vision. He has taught me the methodology to carry out the research
and to present the research works as clearly as possible. I also would
like to give an honorable mention to Dr. Frederick K. Price Jr., head
Pastor of Crenshaw Christian Center in Los Angeles, California,
Horace Butler, Ron LeGrand and the late Frank Pastore of the Frank
Pastore Show on KKLA, 99.5 FM. Price has been an extreme role
model in my life displaying righteous traits in seeking to be a good
man, friend, all around writer, historian and teacher of the word of
God. His father now with the Lord of Lords, has influenced him and I
along with others in the community of faith. I would like to thank
Mr. Butler for his avid research with geography and historical
artifacts described in his book, “When Rocks Cry Out.” Ron LeGrand
is a well-known real estate titan and I most certainly appreciate his
teachings and devotions to help others acquire success. Although
Frank Pastore is no longer with us but his powerful teachings as a
radio talk show host in the world of politics and apologetics have
influenced me to question everything and only believe the evidence
thereof. I am extremely grateful for what these three role models
have offered me. I also extend my heartfelt thanks to my family and
immediate friends for their acceptance and patience in allowing me
to share this in-depth, life changing information.
I am extremely grateful to my mother for her love, prayers,
motivational support and the many sacrifices devoted to my
education and preparing me for my future, in following her footsteps
in the field of law. I am very much thankful to my father for his
devotion in my life displaying that no matter what comes, God will
always be by your side through the good and the bad. And finally, my
thanks go to all the people who have supported me to complete the
research work directly or indirectly.
Du’Vaul Dey
